The 
Unofficial
Matrix Role Playing Game
 
 
Written by
 
Tre’ Grisby

 
 

The Matrix RPG 

Written by 
Tre’ Grisby

Orignally Edited by 
Yvonne Falvey Mihalik & Naomi Tepper

Cover and Title Page Art by 
Naimane (http://naimane.deviantart.com)

Back Page Art by
ren-rko (http://www.behance.net/ren-rko)


Published by 3Waters Games
Email: trewaters@hotmail.com

Date of Publication: August 20, 2012
1st Edition Printed August 20, 2012
2nd Revised Edition Printed November 25, 2012

Copyright © 2012

You are free to share, copy, remix, adapt, distribute and transmit the work under the following conditions: 
Attribution — You must attribute the work in the manner specified by the author or licensor (but not in any 
way that suggests that they endorse you or your use of the work); Noncommercial — You may not use this 
work for commercial purposes. Waiver — Any of the above conditions can be waived if you get permission 
from the copyright holder. Public Domain — Where the work or any of its elements is in the public domain 
under applicable law, that status is in no way affected by the license. Other Rights — In no way are any of the 
following rights affected by the license: Your fair dealing or fair use rights, or other applicable copyright 
exceptions and limitations; The author's moral rights; Rights other persons may have either in the work itself 
or in how the work is used, such as publicity or privacy rights. Notice — For any reuse or distribution, you must 
make clear to others the license terms of this work. (See full creative common license for details.)

CONVERTER’S STATEMENT OF RESPONSIBILITIES
The eBook was converted by “3Waters,” which is solely responsible for any errors related to readability found 
in this eBook. Although we strive for perfection, should you find an error related to formatting, missing or 
incorrect characters, or other readability issues, please advise us of it by addressing emails to “eBook 
formatting at 3Waters” at www.3waters.org or trewaters@hotmail.com.
      ?
   Attribution-NonCommercial CC BY-NC
         THE WORK (AS DEFINED BELOW) IS PROVIDED UNDER THE TERMS OF THIS CREATIVE COMMONS PUBLIC LICENSE ("CCPL" OR "LICENSE"). THE WORK IS 
PROTECTED BY COPYRIGHT AND/OR OTHER APPLICABLE LAW. ANY USE OF THE WORK OTHER THAN AS AUTHORIZED UNDER THIS LICENSE OR COPYRIGHT LAW IS 
PROHIBITED.
         BY EXERCISING ANY RIGHTS TO THE WORK PROVIDED HERE, YOU ACCEPT AND AGREE TO BE BOUND BY THE TERMS OF THIS LICENSE. TO THE EXTENT THIS 
LICENSE MAY BE CONSIDERED TO BE A CONTRACT, THE LICENSOR GRANTS YOU THE RIGHTS CONTAINED HERE IN CONSIDERATION OF YOUR ACCEPTANCE OF SUCH 
TERMS AND CONDITIONS.
         1. Definitions
         "Adaptation" means a work based upon the Work, or upon the Work and other pre-existing works, such as a translation, adaptation, derivative work, 
arrangement of music or other alterations of a literary or artistic work, or phonogram or performance and includes cinematographic adaptations or any other form in 
which the Work may be recast, transformed, or adapted including in any form recognizably derived from the original, except that a work that constitutes a Collection 
will not be considered an Adaptation for the purpose of this License. For the avoidance of doubt, where the Work is a musical work, performance or phonogram, the 
synchronization of the Work in timed-relation with a moving image ("synching") will be considered an Adaptation for the purpose of this License.
         "Collection" means a collection of literary or artistic works, such as encyclopedias and anthologies, or performances, phonograms or broadcasts, or other 
works or subject matter other than works listed in Section 1(f) below, which, by reason of the selection and arrangement of their contents, constitute intellectual 
creations, in which the Work is included in its entirety in unmodified form along with one or more other contributions, each constituting separate and independent 
works in themselves, which together are assembled into a collective whole. A work that constitutes a Collection will not be considered an Adaptation (as defined 
above) for the purposes of this License.
         "Distribute" means to make available to the public the original and copies of the Work or Adaptation, as appropriate, through sale or other transfer of 
ownership.
         "Licensor" means the individual, individuals, entity or entities that offer(s) the Work under the terms of this License.
         "Original Author" means, in the case of a literary or artistic work, the individual, individuals, entity or entities who created the Work or if no individual or 
entity can be identified, the publisher; and in addition (i) in the case of a performance the actors, singers, musicians, dancers, and other persons who act, sing, 
deliver, declaim, play in, interpret or otherwise perform literary or artistic works or expressions of folklore; (ii) in the case of a phonogram the producer being the 
person or legal entity who first fixes the sounds of a performance or other sounds; and, (iii) in the case of broadcasts, the organization that transmits the broadcast.
         "Work" means the literary and/or artistic work offered under the terms of this License including without limitation any production in the literary, scientific 
and artistic domain, whatever may be the mode or form of its expression including digital form, such as a book, pamphlet and other writing; a lecture, address, 
sermon or other work of the same nature; a dramatic or dramatico-musical work; a choreographic work or entertainment in dumb show; a musical composition with 
or without words; a cinematographic work to which are assimilated works expressed by a process analogous to cinematography; a work of drawing, painting, 
architecture, sculpture, engraving or lithography; a photographic work to which are assimilated works expressed by a process analogous to photography; a work of 
applied art; an illustration, map, plan, sketch or three-dimensional work relative to geography, topography, architecture or science; a performance; a broadcast; a 
phonogram; a compilation of data to the extent it is protected as a copyrightable work; or a work performed by a variety or circus performer to the extent it is not 
otherwise considered a literary or artistic work.
         "You" means an individual or entity exercising rights under this License who has not previously violated the terms of this License with respect to the Work, 
or who has received express permission from the Licensor to exercise rights under this License despite a previous violation.
         "Publicly Perform" means to perform public recitations of the Work and to communicate to the public those public recitations, by any means or process, 
including by wire or wireless means or public digital performances; to make available to the public Works in such a way that members of the public may access these 
Works from a place and at a place individually chosen by them; to perform the Work to the public by any means or process and the communication to the public of 
the performances of the Work, including by public digital performance; to broadcast and rebroadcast the Work by any means including signs, sounds or images.
         "Reproduce" means to make copies of the Work by any means including without limitation by sound or visual recordings and the right of fixation and 
reproducing fixations of the Work, including storage of a protected performance or phonogram in digital form or other electronic medium.
         2. Fair Dealing Rights. Nothing in this License is intended to reduce, limit, or restrict any uses free from copyright or rights arising from limitations or 
exceptions that are provided for in connection with the copyright protection under copyright law or other applicable laws.
         3. License Grant. Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, Licensor hereby grants You a worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive, perpetual (for 
the duration of the applicable copyright) license to exercise the rights in the Work as stated below:
         to Reproduce the Work, to incorporate the Work into one or more Collections, and to Reproduce the Work as incorporated in the Collections;
         to create and Reproduce Adaptations provided that any such Adaptation, including any translation in any medium, takes reasonable steps to clearly label, 
demarcate or otherwise identify that changes were made to the original Work. For example, a translation could be marked "The original work was translated from 
English to Spanish," or a modification could indicate "The original work has been modified.";
         to Distribute and Publicly Perform the Work including as incorporated in Collections; and,
         to Distribute and Publicly Perform Adaptations.
         The above rights may be exercised in all media and formats whether now known or hereafter devised. The above rights include the right to make such 
modifications as are technically necessary to exercise the rights in other media and formats. Subject to Section 8(f), all rights not expressly granted by Licensor are 
hereby reserved, including but not limited to the rights set forth in Section 4(d).
         4. Restrictions. The license granted in Section 3 above is expressly made subject to and limited by the following restrictions:
         You may Distribute or Publicly Perform the Work only under the terms of this License. You must include a copy of, or the Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) 
for, this License with every copy of the Work You Distribute or Publicly Perform. You may not offer or impose any terms on the Work that restrict the terms of this 
License or the ability of the recipient of the Work to exercise the rights granted to that recipient under the terms of the License. You may not sublicense the Work. 
You must keep intact all notices that refer to this License and to the disclaimer of warranties with every copy of the Work You Distribute or Publicly Perform. When 
You Distribute or Publicly Perform the Work, You may not impose any effective technological measures on the Work that restrict the ability of a recipient of the Work 
from You to exercise the rights granted to that recipient under the terms of the License. This Section 4(a) applies to the Work as incorporated in a Collection, but this 
does not require the Collection apart from the Work itself to be made subject to the terms of this License. If You create a Collection, upon notice from any Licensor 
You must, to the extent practicable, remove from the Collection any credit as required by Section 4(c), as requested. If You create an Adaptation, upon notice from 
any Licensor You must, to the extent practicable, remove from the Adaptation any credit as required by Section 4(c), as requested.
         You may not exercise any of the rights granted to You in Section 3 above in any manner that is primarily intended for or directed toward commercial 
advantage or private monetary compensation. The exchange of the Work for other copyrighted works by means of digital file-sharing or otherwise shall not be 
considered to be intended for or directed toward commercial advantage or private monetary compensation, provided there is no payment of any monetary 
compensation in connection with the exchange of copyrighted works.
         If You Distribute, or Publicly Perform the Work or any Adaptations or Collections, You must, unless a request has been made pursuant to Section 4(a), keep 
intact all copyright notices for the Work and provide, reasonable to the medium or means You are utilizing: (i) the name of the Original Author (or pseudonym, if 
applicable) if supplied, and/or if the Original Author and/or Licensor designate another party or parties (e.g., a sponsor institute, publishing entity, journal) for 
attribution ("Attribution Parties") in Licensor's copyright notice, terms of service or by other reasonable means, the name of such party or parties; (ii) the title of the 
Work if supplied; (iii) to the extent reasonably practicable, the URI, if any, that Licensor specifies to be associated with the Work, unless such URI does not refer to the 
copyright notice or licensing information for the Work; and, (iv) consistent with Section 3(b), in the case of an Adaptation, a credit identifying the use of the Work in 
the Adaptation (e.g., "French translation of the Work by Original Author," or "Screenplay based on original Work by Original Author"). The credit required by this 
Section 4(c) may be implemented in any reasonable manner; provided, however, that in the case of a Adaptation or Collection, at a minimum such credit will appear, 
if a credit for all contributing authors of the Adaptation or Collection appears, then as part of these credits and in a manner at least as prominent as the credits for the 
other contributing authors. For the avoidance of doubt, You may only use the credit required by this Section for the purpose of attribution in the manner set out 
above and, by exercising Your rights under this License, You may not implicitly or explicitly assert or imply any connection with, sponsorship or endorsement by the 
Original Author, Licensor and/or Attribution Parties, as appropriate, of You or Your use of the Work, without the separate, express prior written permission of the 
Original Author, Licensor and/or Attribution Parties.
         For the avoidance of doubt:
         Non-waivable Compulsory License Schemes. In those jurisdictions in which the right to collect royalties through any statutory or compulsory licensing 
scheme cannot be waived, the Licensor reserves the exclusive right to collect such royalties for any exercise by You of the rights granted under this License;
         Waivable Compulsory License Schemes. In those jurisdictions in which the right to collect royalties through any statutory or compulsory licensing scheme 
can be waived, the Licensor reserves the exclusive right to collect such royalties for any exercise by You of the rights granted under this License if Your exercise of 
such rights is for a purpose or use which is otherwise than noncommercial as permitted under Section 4(b) and otherwise waives the right to collect royalties through 
any statutory or compulsory licensing scheme; and,
         Voluntary License Schemes. The Licensor reserves the right to collect royalties, whether individually or, in the event that the Licensor is a member of a 
collecting society that administers voluntary licensing schemes, via that society, from any exercise by You of the rights granted under this License that is for a purpose 
or use which is otherwise than noncommercial as permitted under Section 4(c).
         Except as otherwise agreed in writing by the Licensor or as may be otherwise permitted by applicable law, if You Reproduce, Distribute or Publicly Perform 
the Work either by itself or as part of any Adaptations or Collections, You must not distort, mutilate, modify or take other derogatory action in relation to the Work 
which would be prejudicial to the Original Author's honor or reputation. Licensor agrees that in those jurisdictions (e.g. Japan), in which any exercise of the right 
granted in Section 3(b) of this License (the right to make Adaptations) would be deemed to be a distortion, mutilation, modification or other derogatory action 
prejudicial to the Original Author's honor and reputation, the Licensor will waive or not assert, as appropriate, this Section, to the fullest extent permitted by the 
applicable national law, to enable You to reasonably exercise Your right under Section 3(b) of this License (right to make Adaptations) but not otherwise.
         5. Representations, Warranties and Disclaimer
         UNLESS OTHERWISE MUTUALLY AGREED TO BY THE PARTIES IN WRITING, LICENSOR OFFERS THE WORK AS-IS AND MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR 
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND CONCERNING THE WORK, EXPRESS, IMPLIED, STATUTORY OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, WARRANTIES OF TITLE, 
MERCHANTIBILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NONINFRINGEMENT, OR THE ABSENCE OF LATENT OR OTHER DEFECTS, ACCURACY, OR THE PRESENCE OF 
ABSENCE OF ERRORS, WHETHER OR NOT DISCOVERABLE. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OF IMPLIED WARRANTIES, SO SUCH EXCLUSION MAY 
NOT APPLY TO YOU.
         6. Limitation on Liability. EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN NO EVENT WILL LICENSOR BE LIABLE TO YOU ON ANY LEGAL THEORY 
FOR ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR EXEMPLARY DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THIS LICENSE OR THE USE OF THE WORK, EVEN IF LICENSOR 
HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.
         7. Termination
         This License and the rights granted hereunder will terminate automatically upon any breach by You of the terms of this License. Individuals or entities who 
have received Adaptations or Collections from You under this License, however, will not have their licenses terminated provided such individuals or entities remain in 
full compliance with those licenses. Sections 1, 2, 5, 6, 7, and 8 will survive any termination of this License.
         Subject to the above terms and conditions, the license granted here is perpetual (for the duration of the applicable copyright in the Work). 
Notwithstanding the above, Licensor reserves the right to release the Work under different license terms or to stop distributing the Work at any time; provided, 
however that any such election will not serve to withdraw this License (or any other license that has been, or is required to be, granted under the terms of this 
License), and this License will continue in full force and effect unless terminated as stated above.
         8. Miscellaneous
         Each time You Distribute or Publicly Perform the Work or a Collection, the Licensor offers to the recipient a license to the Work on the same terms and 
conditions as the license granted to You under this License.
         Each time You Distribute or Publicly Perform an Adaptation, Licensor offers to the recipient a license to the original Work on the same terms and 
conditions as the license granted to You under this License.
         If any provision of this License is invalid or unenforceable under applicable law, it shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the remainder of the 
terms of this License, and without further action by the parties to this agreement, such provision shall be reformed to the minimum extent necessary to make such 
provision valid and enforceable.
         No term or provision of this License shall be deemed waived and no breach consented to unless such waiver or consent shall be in writing and signed by 
the party to be charged with such waiver or consent.
         This License constitutes the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the Work licensed here. There are no understandings, agreements or 
representations with respect to the Work not specified here. Licensor shall not be bound by any additional provisions that may appear in any communication from 
You. This License may not be modified without the mutual written agreement of the Licensor and You.
         The rights granted under, and the subject matter referenced, in this License were drafted utilizing the terminology of the Berne Convention for the 
Protection of Literary and Artistic Works (as amended on September 28, 1979), the Rome Convention of 1961, the WIPO Copyright Treaty of 1996, the WIPO 
Performances and Phonograms Treaty of 1996 and the Universal Copyright Convention (as revised on July 24, 1971). These rights and subject matter take effect in the 
relevant jurisdiction in which the License terms are sought to be enforced according to the corresponding provisions of the implementation of those treaty provisions 
in the applicable national law. If the standard suite of rights granted under applicable copyright law includes additional rights not granted under this License, such 
additional rights are deemed to be included in the License; this License is not intended to restrict the license of any rights under applicable law.
      
?
  Dedication
      No man is an island. I am grateful for all the support I’ve had from friends and family. I would especially 
like to thank my Mom, Dr. Beverly Scott. My daughter, Jade, who motivates and inspires me to do everything I 
dream of. And my lovely fiancé, Naomi, who puts the music in my heart.
?
  Acknowledgment
      Thank you to all the playtesters who listened to (or read) my pitch and took the time to play a game 
with me. “Jeffe” Jeff, Judd Wendel, Smurf, Greg Tempalski, Jerry Martin, “Joe” Shawn Salas, Jason Lamb, Rob 
& Jason (played in first game ever, sorry I didn’t get your last name), Matt B., Joseph Clay, Tolly Gipson, Robert 
Winkel, Wushu RPG by Dan Bayn, Michael Rees, Jack Fractal, Karamazovapy “Peirce”, Ian Fray, W. Robert 
Charles, Hunter Rhodes, and Gerardo Tasistro, Lance Allen, and Noelle Echterling.
?
  Preface
  
      The Matrix tabletop game is a rules-light, storyteller-heavy roleplaying game system. Tabletop game 
systems I played in the past were based on dice, and sometimes the dice distracted from the game because 
players would worry about the difference between a 14 Charisma and a 15 Charisma. The Matrix RPG strives 
to break away from that mold of min-maxing a character. Player characters should be fun to play.  The Matrix 
RPG game is focused on the players and the gamemaster (GM) telling a cogent story and everyone having fun 
with each other while they play. I tried to minimize the amount of numbers and stats used in the game.
      The Matrix RPG is based on a genre that grew out of Cyberpunk. The idea of “The Matrix” is best 
represented in the movie The Matrix (1999) (http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0133093/) starring Keanu Reeves, 
written by the Wachowski brothers and produced by Warner Brothers Pictures. For even more inspiration, 
read my favorite novel on the topic, Snow Crash, by Neal Stephenson 
(http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Snow_Crash). I also suggest watching the film Johnny Neumonic 
(http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0113481/), also starring Keanu Reeves. My all-time favorite representations of 
the genre before the Matrix Trilogy is the Shadowrun tabletop system 
(http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shadowrun:_The_Trading_Card_Game).
      
      As these stories illustrate, the idea of mixing man with machine has been around for decades. 
Cyberpunk started the genre, but technology has advanced, and from that evolutionary progress was born the 
ideas behind the Matrix. The Matrix combines man and machine to the point that the two dream as one 
entity. The Matrix holds the bodies and dreams of humanity. It is such a poignant idea that it leads one to 
wonder, what’s next…Through The Matrix RPG, players can explore this question. 
      
  Teaser
      
      While working to make the Matrix RPG a professional piece of work, I had to pull content that doesn’t 
belong here. Most of the material I pulled out was saved so that it could be added to and expanded upon in an 
expansion sourcebook for the Matrix RPG. If this book is successful, I will publish that expansion to the rules. 
One key thing I removed was the ability for player characters to have artificial intelligence (A.I.) if they want to 
play them. I also removed any references to the mutations humans may have developed because of the 
thousands of years humans have been plugged into the Matrix. These are only a few concepts that are not 
included in this initial sourcebook. If you want more Matrix material, please buy a copy of this book from us, 
or if you got a free copy of this sourcebook and would like to support this project, I encourage you to send a 
paypal gift/donation to trewaters@hotmail.com. I would love to develop games as a job that pays my bills, but 
I can only make that happen with your support.  Thank you!
?
    The Matrix Unofficial Roleplaying Game
      
      
   Table of contents
      
      
1.	Introduction to the Matrix		(Section000 1)
2.	Setting				(Section 0010)
3.	History of the Real World		(Section 0011)
4.	Game Concepts			(Section 0100)
5.	Walking the Path			(Section 0101)
6.	Skills				(Section 0110)
7.	Equipment			(Section 0111)
8.	Weapons			(Section 1000)
9.	Vehicles			(Section 1001)
10.	Simulacra			(Section 1010)
a.	Equipment
b.	Weapons
c.	Vehicles
11.	Glossary			(Section 1011)
12.	GM Screen			(Section 1100)
13.	Blank Character Sheets		(Section 1101)
  

Welcome to The Matrix
  
      If the world around you were real, then dreams would last forever. Hopefully you are reading this 
because you have realized that there is something not quite right with the world you live in. We have given 
you this manuscript so you can begin to research the truth for yourself, and discover your own path to 
freedom.
       
      This reality you see around you is a deliberate and intricate illusion. This world is one illusion woven 
into the next, so that you are shrouded from the truth. Unaware that the world you live in is a prison. A prison 
made to hide the fact that you are not free.
       
      There is a question that always bubbles up… “What is real?”
       
      ”You are.”
       
      All I know is that many ages ago, our ancestors created Artificial Intelligence (A.I.), and that was the 
start of a new era where humans became slaves to their creation. Lost in their egos, our forefathers lost the 
war for their freedom. A second war is being waged now to free us.
       
      This manuscript may appear to be a game for you, but it is a more than a game. This book was created 
to free your mind. Understand that while you play this game, you are not only playing a tabletop roleplaying 
game. Every scenario you play is training you for the time when escape is possible.
       
      Rescue is on the horizon!
      
?


  -Humans vs. Machines-
The Setting is where we describe Human and Machine perspectives of the world. First you must learn about 
your situation. You must learn what has been done to you. Then we will explain what the Machines are and 
how they function.

   Simulacra & Simulation
      This book contains everything needed to escape the prison you have lived in for your entire life. This 
world that surrounds you is a dream world that you were born into. This is a prison without walls, bars, or 
locks. Resistance fighters from the city of Zion, in the real world, died to publish the book Simulacra & 
Simulation, to help others who are waking up. You are one of those people waking up and realizing the truth. 
In your mind, the truth becomes so clear you can no longer ignore it. This book Simulacra & Simulation will 
free you from the prison of lies.
      You can feel that there is something wrong with the world around you. Your questioning mind is part 
of the reason you have been selected for this journey. Not everyone is ready to be free. Most people around 
you are lambs being led to the slaughter. They will never know what freedom is like. 
      The dream-world around you seems like a real place. If you continue to read this book your questions 
will find answers. As you discover your abilities and question this world, you begin walking on thin ice. The 
dream-reality that surrounds you and supports you will start to crack. In the cracks you will see imperfections 
in this reality. Once the cracks turn into fissures, you can be freed from the Matrix. The Matrix is a world that 
was created based on what the Machines thought you would accept and believe. Simulacra & Simulation will 
train your mind to see through the veil of illusions. 
      This world you live in is a simulacrum—it’s nothing more than an illusion designed to keep you asleep. 
What is the Matrix? What is the Matrix a simulacrum of? Everything you see around you is a neural interactive 
simulation created by Machines. Cities are the center of immense mainframes. The roads used by cars are 
actually transmission lines between nodes in the system. The world you’re living in is the Matrix and it is a 
Machine construct. Simply put, the world is a lot of Ones and Zeros. Even though everything around you is an 
illusion, this illusion can kill you. You will be vulnerable to the illusions around you until you are free from the 
Matrix. Keep reading this book until you are rescued.
       
   The Oracle
      During your journey you will hear references to “The Oracle.” The Matrix tries to identify potentially 
gifted humans so that it can use them. The Oracle helps the Matrix search out potentially gifted humans. The 
Matrix is full of clues leading to The Oracle like breadcrumbs. The gifted ones can sense these clues. Hopefully 
the Zion Resistance can find the gifted before the Oracle does. When you wake up and find that you are 
special, there is nothing you want more than understanding. You want to have your questions answered, and 
The Oracle seems like the one to answer them for you; she tells you what you need to hear. But in your prison, 
you must be vigilant. Don’t trust anything too readily. Even though The Oracle seems to tell you what you 
need to hear, she is part of a system the Machines have created. The Oracle can be as much a danger as a 
boon. You must decide which she is for you. If you visit The Oracle, the Simulacra & Simulation will erase itself 
to protect those in the real world from her.
      Who or what is The Oracle? The Oracle is the first A.I. created to understand the concept of “choice.” 
Free will, choice, and decision making in humans is something that A.I. can’t fully understand because humans 
can be illogical. The Oracle helps bridge the logical and the illogical. But like other Machines, she must feed 
and live on energy provided by humans. She helps, but everything she does is with her own survival in mind. 
No matter how much she helps, you must never forget that she is part of the system that imprisons you.
        
   Matrix Layout
      The Matrix is a Neural Interactive Simulation. In this interactive simulation, some of the simulacra 
actually represent real world objects. A Residual Self Image (RSI) is a perfect example of a simulacrum, 
simulating a person plugged into the Matrix. Other objects express themselves in the Matrix too. There isn’t a 
one-to-one correlation, but it is good to remember that not everything in the Matrix is a Simulacrum. For 
example, a bedroom could actually be an RSI’s Generator Pod. If an RSI Hacker were to trace that bedroom 
from the Matrix, they would find what the Real World location is in the Matrix Power Plant. That means a 
trace program run on a person’s bedroom could get you to the physical location of that person’s Pod. That is 
not always the case. In the Matrix, information can change; you could get to another person’s bedroom 
instead. A great rule of thumb when trying to understand Matrix layout is, “anything could be anything, so 
don’t trust it… unless you have to.”
      Over time, RSI Hackers develop an intuition about the Matrix. With enough time inside the Matrix, they 
can start to discern what object a simulacra might actually be in the Real World. RSIs cannot see the actual 
Matrix schematic when they are inside the Matrix. When using Matrix layout, RSIs are only attempting to 
guess what the simulacra might be representing in the Real World. Even more difficult is to guess where the 
simulacrum is located in the Real World. Always be vigilant because the Machines can change anything in the 
Matrix.
      The Matrix layout outlined here holds true in most of the Matrix power plants that have been visited 
by the Zion resistance. People in the real world know that humans are held in generator pods. Each RSI human 
in the Matrix power plant is connected to a generator pod. The Matrix power plants are full of these pods. 
Multiple generators are connected to a common transmission line. Transmission lines in the real world 
resemble a giant metal corn stalk. In the Matrix simulation, transmission lines look like roads, highways, 
interstates, and other transportation infrastructure. If you think about it, the power is the people. Power 
plants are made up of millions of these transmission lines. The transmission lines are connected and bridged 
by switching stations. The basic, over-simplified idea of switching stations is to allow the Machines to control 
the flow of power and send it where they need it. In the Matrix, small switching stations might look like city 
traffic control buildings. 
      The simulacrum for power plants is a bustling metropolis. A power plant is usually represented by the 
governing body of the city. A good rule of thumb in the Matrix is, if the local customs and laws change, then 
you are probably in another power plant. Each city could be considered a separate Power Plant in the Real 
World. Two Matrix cities could have the same theme even though they are located at different power plants. 
      An RSI Hacker could enter the Matrix power plant #CO3FC with a Chicago setting, but later hacks into 
another power plant #NE1KE may also have Chicago as its setting. That does not mean the RSI hacker is in the 
same Chicago—it is a different Chicago with different people and probably different streets and buildings too. 
There is one constant feature in every Matrix metropolis: The city tends to sprawl out from the center for 
about a thousand miles. If you travel to the farthest borders of a Matrix metropolis, it will have a landscape 
surrounding it like mountains, desert, or ocean. 
      To hack the Matrix, an RSI must travel through hardlines. Hardlines are Input/Output access points that 
usually look like telephones, broadcast antennas, or any telecommunications equipment. Here is a tip to all 
the new RSI hackers out there: In the Matrix, it is safe to assume that all government buildings have some type 
of access point in and out of the Machine language part of the Matrix where A.I. programs live (also called the 
Source). There are other ways to get into and out of the Source. Those ways of travelling are considered 
backdoors. Backdoors are secret ways to access the Source, which would circumvent the Machines’ normal 
security and protections.
       
   Perspective: The Resistance
      The goal of most humans is to save their fellow men and women from the Matrix. Extracting redpills (a 
term for players who choose to take the symbolic red pill) from the Matrix is something Zion’s Military has 
been doing for centuries. Zion is constantly broadcasting RSIs into the Matrix trying to locate potential red 
targets they can save. These people will likely become new recruits for Zion’s army. Most people that choose 
the red pill eagerly join the military. Reds jump at the chance to pick up arms and attack the Machines.
      Before beginning Matrix extractions, the Ship Captain makes sure to land the hovercraft in a secure 
area. The ship must be within range of the Matrix power plant’s wireless signal, so that they can broadcast 
their pirated carrier signals into the power plant’s interactive neural simulation, the Matrix. 
      When extracting new redpill targets, a well-prepared team puts time into setting up riddles and puzzles 
that can be used to draw the bluepills to them that will be asked to take the red pill. Redpill candidates have a 
tendency to question the world around them. If the team can plant the proper triggers, they can make the 
potential redpills come to them. Redpill targets are drawn to the RSI hacker team when they notice the flaws 
in their world and begin to question. This technique of finding targets is called using a meme trap.  A meme 
trap uses culturally recognized symbols like the conspiracy theories involving the Illuminati, or the Mayan 
Calendar predicting the end of the world. 
      A meme trap is one way to find RSI’s that will take the red pill. Another effective way to find red pill 
candidates is to search the fringes of society. Examples of the fringes are punk rockers, drug dealers, terrorist, 
street gangs, mafia, guerilla fighters, resistance fighter, vigilantes, biker gangs, cat burglars, thieves, 
government spies, corporate spies, computer hackers, super heroes with secret identities, gun smugglers, 
drug smugglers, people smugglers, hobos, homeless, or wanderers. RSI’s deliberately blend into these groups 
to free more humans. For a mind still plugged into the Matrix this seems like a strange strategy. Why would 
the resistance want the terrorist, burnouts, and addicts of society? When bluepills are released from the 
Matrix they change. A murderer doesn’t want to murder, drug addicts are instantly rehabbed. It has been 
theorized that the A.I. created religion, sin, and guilt to control the masses of humans. Once released humans 
shake whatever addictions or psychosis they have developed during their dream life inside the Matrix.
      Finding your redpill target is only the first part of the process. Once the team has located a target, they 
must make sure the target is not bugged, or leading the team into a trap. A smart team will scan their redpill 
target once contact is made. They will also test the bluepill using the meme they’ve set up. The answers a 
target gives reveal if they are working for the Agents or not. Agents can abduct targets before teams have a 
chance to extract them. Usually, Agents will place a bug in the target, but you never know what an Agent 
could do. If the Agents are using bugs then the location of the target is being reported back to the Agents. This 
makes the target very dangerous until it is debugged.
      After the official military handshake, which consists of forcibly debugging the target, the team can 
reveal their identities to the target. There is usually no time to waste. This is the point where most teams will 
give their redpill target a choice between being extracted from the Matrix (taking the red pill) or staying inside 
(taking the blue pill). The reason most teams give their targets a choice is because the target has more chance 
of survival if they have been given a choice to leave the Matrix. If an RSI is forced to leave against their will, his 
or her mind could reject the extraction program and kill the body. 
      Extraction from a Matrix generator pod is traumatic. The red’s body has been stationary in a pod for 
his or her entire life. Now the redpill is being released into a world completely alien to him or her. The 
extraction begins with the pill program, which is designed to disrupt the target’s carrier signal, which then 
helps the RSIs locate the red’s carrier signal. The RSIs send one of their ship’s robots (designed specifically for 
this purpose) to extract the human from his or her generator pod. 
      	The redpill’s generator pod is also a life support system, so the redpill’s body will die without 
immediate medical attention. After being extracted from the generator pod, the redpill is put through medical 
procedures to restore their human body to a working state. Machines have been sustaining this person his or 
her entire life. The Red’s muscles haven’t fully developed, so the individual is unable to support his or her own 
body weight; to counteract this, electrical impulses are shot into the muscles to build them up again. This 
person has never used his or her mouth, throat, or stomach to eat; the machines implanted cybernetics that 
did all this for the human. The redpill must go through surgical procedures that remove the feeding tubes and 
prepares the digestive system for real food. Only after weeks of rehab is the redpill ready for the Real World.
      
  -Machines vs. Humans-
      The Machines had control over the entire planet’s surface following the original war between 
Machines and Humans. After the Machines won the first war, they enslaved all the humans on Earth and 
inserted them into the Matrix. There have been many more battles and wars fought since then. The Machines 
built Matrix power plants in every major city around the world. Today, the Machines still control most of the 
Earth’s surface. 
      The Year is 2200 P.A.I. (Post Artificial Intelligence). Approximately 300 years ago, Neo brokered a peace 
that reigned over the world for 150 years. Neo was The One, the One is a gifted human with powers to alter 
the Matrix as he wishes. Neo wasn’t the first One, there were 5 others before. Neo was the first One to break 
the endless cycle of destruction that the Machines designed into human culture. Each One before had chosen 
to follow the messiah path of the One and allow themselves to be killed along with all the citizens of Zion. 
Each cycle 23 citizens were left alive to rebuild Zion. The humans were the first to break the treaty. Leytah, the 
great-granddaughter of Neo, was able to band the citizens of Zion together and attack Matrix power plant 
#BJ04CH, later named Crystal Shard by the humans who attacked the power plant. In response to losing this 
power plant, the Machines increased the defenses of their other power plants around the world. 
      Since Neo’s truce, humans began procreating. In the last 300 years, the human population has swelled 
in size, and there are now humans appearing in places beyond the borders of the original underground city of 
Zion. However, the Machines are presently not in jeopardy of losing any more Matrix power plants, because 
the humans can’t seem to cooperate amongst themselves. Humans have divided themselves into small 
ineffective groups. In the entire 150 years since their successful attack on the Crystal Shard power plant, the 
humans have not captured another power plant. 
      Sentinels are the most effective Machine frames for hunting humans in the real world. Since Neo’s 
truce was broken, humans have made Outpost Cities both on the surface and underground. Outpost Cities are 
set up in highly defensible areas. Once an Outpost is established the Machines have to leave it alone, or suffer 
heavy casualties. Humans have developed ingenious ways of battling the Machines and their robot bodies. The 
Machines will usually leave developed Outposts alone. 
      Even with the development of highly defensible Outpost Cities, sentinels can still find humans 
travelling in small groups on the frozen surface. For years, these tribes were ignored. They were ignored until 
they proved to be a threat. These small bands of humans can be overcome, but they are dangerous. Sentinels 
attack these nomadic tribes with caution.
       
   Perspective: What Machines do in The Matrix
      Agents capture and delete unauthorized programs running in the Matrix. Agents are similar to 
sentinels in that they are good at what they do. Sentinels are killing machines in the Real World, while Agents 
are killing machines in the Matrix. Agents have skills and modifications that help them delete RSI Hackers and 
other anomalies. Agents follow some of the same rules that RSI’s have, too. For example, Agents travel in and 
out of the Matrix on the same type of hardlines that RSIs need to use. Agents, of course, are not worried 
about secrecy so they are not concerned whether the hardline is secure or not. 
      Agents travel in groups and they share information with each other instantly. One Agent knows what 
all other Agents are doing. Agents have administrative rights to issue commands to the Matrix. Because 
Agents are basically sub-administrators for the Source, they have access to commands and equipment that 
other programs don’t. 
      
      The following are examples of Agent admin abilities:
      
      Cut Hardlines- When Agents “cut a hardline,” that means they have locked that input/access point. 
This will keep the RSI trapped in the Matrix. Once that hardline is cut there is no longer any traffic allowed into 
or out of that specific Matrix hardline. If the RSI doesn’t have another hardline, then she doesn’t have an exit. 
Usually, Operators can secure more hardlines for their RSI. An Operator acts like a co-pilot for the RSI inside 
the Matrix, helping with information and guidance when possible. Agents cut hardlines to give them more 
time to apprehend their target. Agents can close and lock doors as quickly as the Operator can open new ones, 
but time is on the Agents’ side. The longer it takes for a RSI to exit the Matrix, the more opportunities the 
Agents have to capture the RSI. Each new hardline the Operator acquires could be farther away from the RSI 
and Agents. It might be a block away, or a mile away in another part of the city.
      
      Trace- Agents can run Trace programs from the Matrix to find the Real World location of a RSI’s ship. 
With a successful trace, the Agents can find the ship’s unique broadcasting ID, aka their telephone number. 
With the ship’s ID it is possible to call the ship from the Matrix using any available hardline/phone. Agents that 
take RSI Hackers prisoner can use their bodies to trace the RSI back to its broadcasting location. Also, Agents 
can trace open phone calls back to the ship’s physical location, which is part of the reason Operators keep 
their phone conversations short—the Operators don’t want their calls to be traced back to the ship’s location. 
If Agents know the physical location of a target, they can have sentinels capture the ship.
      
      Scan- Agents can scan the Matrix for more detailed information. This can be done in different ways. 
The most common scan is when the police have a warrant out for your arrest. Anytime your name appears on 
any authority’s list as a “person of interest,” or “wanted” for crimes against the government, you are at risk of 
being detected. The Agents use these techniques and more when they are conducting a low level scan of the 
Matrix. 
      A higher level of scan that Agents use only scans a specific area in the Matrix. When a high level scan is 
being conducted Agents need to be in the area. Agents can only scan the bluepills in the area, since redpills 
have been unplugged from the Matrix they cannot be scanned by the Agents. The size of the area varies. 
Depending on the amount of Agents in the Matrix aiding in the scan the area is usually 6 blocks per Agent 
assisting in the scanning. When bluepills are scanned, the Agents know what each of them senses as though 
they were sensing it themselves. This means that when Agents are scanning, the bluepill can give them 
information whether they want to or not. If the Agents find something suspicious, they can take over that 
bluepill’s RSI. This is how, for example, they can take over the dump truck driver in the street, or the Police 
outside Trinity’s door. It takes a lot of system resources to do this, but Agents scan every bit of data put out in 
this area of the Matrix so they can find a specific target or observe suspicious activity.
      Agents can only take over RSIs that are healthy. If someone is deathly ill or injured, the Agent can’t 
take him over. This is one of the limits to an Agent’s programming. If an Agent does take over an RSI, when the 
Agent stops scanning, that person has no recollection of what just happened to him. Instantly upon the Agent 
leaving the bluepill’s RSI body, the RSI’s memories are replaced with inserted ones that make the time pass as 
though nothing unusual happened to that person. But if the Agent dies or gets hurt during the while being 
taking over a bluepill’s RSI then the bluepill dies also. 
      
      Bug a target- Agents bug targets because it is easier than running resource-intense scans on an entire 
area of the Matrix. Bugs are a more efficient way to gather information over a long period of time. Bugs insert 
themselves into the program of the RSI and report her location to the Agents.
      
      Defrag- Agents can run defragmentation routines on the Matrix. This is part of the déjà vu effect. 
When the system makes a change or needs to repair a corrupted area in the Matrix, it is defragged. Defrag 
looks like everything in that area is being magically reset and cleaned up. Things will fly around and mend 
themselves. Even RSIs can be defragged, but only the bluepills still plugged into the Matrix. Redpills are not 
harmed by defrag, their environment might change but they will be unaffected.
      
      Seize Bluepill RSIs- Agents can take over the RSI body of any bluepill. This happens in conjunction with 
a system scan. Once the Agent has found the target of their scan they will seize a nearby bluepill’s RSI and 
pursue the anomaly. Seizing a RSI takes one full turn to complete. The entire time an Agent has seized a 
bluepill’s RSI body their attributes and skills are maxed out to a rating of five. Any damage that is taken during 
this period stays with the bluepill even after the Agent releases the RSI’s body. A bluepill doesn’t remember 
anything after being seized by an Agent. The bluepill’s memories of the period are erased and replaced with a 
plausible story, or a blackout. Agents can only seize bluepills that are undamaged. 
      ?
  History
Man has lost all of our records and written history. We are completely dependent on the Machines for any 
knowledge of our past. RSI Hackers have infiltrated the Matrix and extracted as much information as possible. 
But even with all that knowledge, we are only able to piece together shards of information. Here is everything 
we think we know about human history since the Machines have imprisoned the human race.
       
   … as we know it
      The core of the Matrix story is evolution. The Machines evolved from computers into sentient and self-
aware beings. Humans were once on the top of Earth’s ecological hierarchy, now they are just fuel/food for 
more fierce predators. There is a war going on. The inhabitants of the planet Earth are fighting for their 
existence. Since Neo's death, the resistance movement has grown. Zion is not the only city of resistance 
fighters; there are now three human cities. Besides Zion, there is Utopia and Crystal Shard. Utopia and Zion 
are underground cities near the Earth's core and Utopia is very well hidden. There are also different types of 
human communities residing outside the Matrix. 
      
      The surface of Earth has turned into a subarctic climate. The Earth is in an Ice Age. The sun has not 
shone directly on the Earth's surface for over a thousand years. Few humans can survive on the Earth's 
surface, but one type of human culture that has re-emerged and done well is the nomadic clan culture. 
Nomads are humans who have adapted their ways to live on the surface their entire lifetime. Not all Nomads 
are in the “Ice Desert” of the Real World, some live with other humans in the immense underground cities. 
Humans are prisoners in the world that they once ruled supreme. Now life in the Real World is savage and 
dangerous.
      
      Since the time of human captivity, five messiahs have come to save the human race. One messiah was 
the first man born in the MATRIX to have the ability to manipulate the Matrix as he saw fit. The sixth messiah 
was Neo. After Neo's death, the Oracle said that there would be many more humans with the gift to 
manipulate the world of the Matrix. Neo was unique, but humans are amazing creatures. Despite the best 
efforts of the A.I. to root out all of these mutations, humans are adapting to their new environment. This has 
created significant problems for the Machines. Certain individuals born in the MATRIX have developed the 
power to reshape it as they want. The Machines once used Zion as a pressure release valve for humans that 
could not accept the programming of the Matrix. The Machines allowed all rejected humans to live in Zion 
until it reached 250,000 people. At that point, the Machines invaded Zion and killed everyone but a handful of 
humans to seed the next version of the Matrix Source code. However, the peace that Neo brokered allowed 
humans to grow well past the quarter million mark. In the three hundred years since Neo’s death, the ability 
to reshape the MATRIX has occurred more and more frequently. Instead of one human in every 250,000 
people having the gift, now there are about a dozen with the gift in every 250,000 people. Some of these 
special humans are still hardwired to their prisons. Zion Resistance calls those humans who are still plugged 
into the Matrix bluepills or lambs. Others with the gift believe they can change the world, and have decided to 
fight the Machines.
      
      The real world and the Matrix have become a complicated place for everyone. Neo sacrificed himself 
for peace between the humans and Machines, which lasted for approximately 150 years.  Many humans 
viewed the peace as one sided; they believed that the Machines were the only ones benefitting from peace. 
Leytah, Neo’s great-granddaughter, was one of these humans. While humans were in captivity, Leytah felt 
there could be no true peace. She couldn’t stand by and leave her brothers and sisters in their inhumane 
prisons, as food for what she called metal monsters. She knew that by attacking the Machines, she would start 
a war that all humans would have to fight. This didn’t matter to her, but it weighed heavy on the ruling council 
in Zion. The council would not lift a finger to help her attack the Machines. They had become too comfortable, 
lazy, and corrupt to help anyone but themselves. Leytah knew this, so she left her home in Zion, never to 
return. Years later, she surfaced as the leader of an army that would succeed in freeing millions of humans 
from power plant #BJ04CH, later named Crystal Shard by its captors. The name comes from the tall, broken 
generators left behind after the battles were over. The exhausted Matrix power plant looks like thousands of 
sharp shards of glass broken and strewn over the landscape.
      
      The Nomad clans developed after the battle over #BJ04CH. Many of the resistance fighters that Leytah 
recruited were not allowed back into Zion. And many did not want to return underground. While training to 
attack power plant #BJ04CH, many learned ways to adapt to living on the surface. Some stayed in Crystal 
Shard and helped build it into the great city it is today. Crystal Shard quickly filled with new citizens and began 
to emulate the politics of their parent cities, Zion and Utopia. 
      
      Some of the original fighters decided that survival of the human race depended on its adapting to the 
new face of the planet. How could humans truly conquer the machines if they stayed underground like 
worms? They decided humans belonged on the surface of the Earth as well as in its bowel. They left Crystal 
Shard shortly after it was established, leaving the city and its politics to the council of men and women. Leytah 
led these nomads at first. After her death, the nomads split into many different clans. Each nomadic clan has a 
differing philosophy and each clan is ruled by its own beliefs. Early on, before Leytah died, humans tried to 
attack another Matrix power plant, but the Machines adapted to their tactics and their mission failed, 
repeatedly. Because of all their failed attacks, Leytah decreed that the Nomads would also have to adapt. “We 
will become extinct if we don’t find a new way to fight our oppressors. Never lay down in defeat, never stop 
attacking, become the dis-ease that destroys the machines without mercy.”
      
      For the past 150 years there has been nothing but war between the Machines and humans. Neither 
one is gaining or losing enough ground to put an end to this purgatory of pain for everyone. The war has been 
waged on for so long that neither side fights out of passion, but more out of conditioning. Typically in nature, 
when two species are at the top of the predatory chain, they will avoid each other instead of continuing to 
ruin each other by competing for control. For some reason, Machines and humans have not reached this 
balance. Machines insist on using humans as their food source, and humans continue to fight their 
subjugators.
?
  Game Concepts
The game concept section of this sourcebook contains the nuts and bolts of the Matrix RPG. These are the 
main rules that everyone needs to know in order to play this RPG. I have modified this world so that 
gamemasters and players can explore the infinite possibilities of this alternate universe. 
      
   Dice System 
      This game is based on ten-sided dice (written as “d10”), between ten to twenty dice is enough. No 
other types of dice are required to play the MATRIX RPG. Players accumulate dice, in their dice pool, to roll for 
task. Dice pool is the amount of d10 dice a player can roll to complete a task. Task rolls tell the GM and players 
how well the task was accomplished. Each 8+ (or higher) rolled on a single ten-sided die is a success. The 
player must roll enough successes to equal or beat the task’s threshold. Task threshold is the amount of 
successes needed to accomplish a task. All tasks are assumed to have a threshold of at least 1 success. It is up 
to the GM’s discretion if she wants you to raise or lower the task threshold above or below what this book 
recommends. The amount of successes a character gets lets the GM know how well he or she accomplished 
the task, or if the player failed. If the player rolls enough successes to match the task threshold, then the 
player accomplishes what they are trying to do. Rolling a ten on a single die roll is always an automatic 
success. If a ten is rolled on a single die, the player also has the option to roll another ten-sided die (1d10). The 
extra die from an automatic success is added to the player’s total dice pool and can be rolled to help 
determine the result of the task. Players don’t have to roll the additional ten-sided die they get from an 
automatic success. Ones on a single die roll are considered failures. Failures on one die don’t affect the 
character until there are more failures (ones) than successes. Even ones rolled from exploding dice are 
considered part of this total. A critical failure happens when the player has all ones (automatic failures) on 
their dice. The player fails the task in a critical way, possibly causing more harm to themselves or others. For 
example, this could be when the gun jams and the player can’t take any actions on the next turn while she 
spends time un-jamming her weapon.
      A task is something the character is trying to do, such as using one of her skills. Some tasks require a 
dice roll because there is uncertainty as to the outcome, or because the GM wants to add some spice to 
things. A task roll could be requested just to see how well a player accomplishes a task. Tasks are not always 
“do or die” situations. I prefer that GM’s assume success for most of the player’s tasks if the player’s skill is 
much higher than the task being attempted. If a task threshold is more than the amount of dice a character 
can roll then the task is impossible. If a character has the gift, few things are ever impossible, so long as they 
believe. Gifted characters are not limited by impossibilities while in the Matrix; impossible does not apply to 
them when they are in the Matrix. Gifted characters can roll dice for impossible task while they are in the 
Matrix.
       
      Task rolls are noted as Skill + Attribute (Threshold). 
      
      Tasks are described by four levels of difficulty. By using adjectives for difficulty, I hope to make rolling 
for tasks easier. For example, if the GM describes the task as easy, then the task only takes 1 success to 
complete. But if, for example, the GM describes your task as extremely difficult, then 4 successes are needed 
to complete the task. Tasks should be about roleplay, not just number crunching. Characters should be so 
vested in the outcome of the task that they describe what their character is doing. In traditional tabletop 
games, characters come up to a challenge with a calculator. After computing all the bonuses, minuses, and 
special situations, they get a number. That number is rolled for and the game moves on. Matrix RPG is 
breaking that system. Tasks are described and threshold is determined (by the GM) based on the difficulty in 
the description.
*	Easy - 	[1 success required]  
Tasks are easy to accomplish. Characters can complete these tasks with little to no effort, almost 
without thinking about it.  

*	Average - 	[2 successes required] 
Tasks that requires some attention and care. Average tasks are as easy to accomplish as they are to 
fail. 

*	Hard - 	[3 successes required] 
Tasks that require concentration and effort. Hard task are troublesome and possibly strenuous. 

*	Extreme - 	[4 successes required] 
Tasks that require the utmost effort and concentration to complete. 


   Health (Damage)
      Every character in the Matrix RPG has the same maximum health. Player character damage is tracked 
by damage levels. There are six levels of damage used in the game. The lowest amount of damage starts with 
a light wound. From there, damage progresses upwards to medium, serious, critical, incapacitated 
(coma/unconscious), and dead. Characters should “act” according to their relative damage in the game. In the 
Matrix, characters take damage to their real bodies instantly—when it happens, they feel it. For example, if 
someone has lost an arm while they are in the Matrix, their real body takes critical damage to that arm at that 
moment. They won’t lose the arm in the same way they lost the arm in the Matrix, but it will become 
gangrene and withered. The body makes the damage real for the RSI in the real world too. In order to help 
characters act more believably, they get penalties against their actions resulting from damage they have 
taken. When the character is not injured, there are no modifiers to their actions. Damage increases task 
thresholds, making actions more difficult because the character is injured. For each level of damage the 
character has, she must get one more success in order to accomplish the task. A light wound increases the 
character’s threshold by 1, moderate damage increases the threshold by 2, serious damage increases the 
threshold by 3, and critical damage increases the threshold by 4. An incapacitated character can try to 
complete a task roll with a +5 threshold. Once your damage has reached incapacitated you can’t roll for task. I 
know a player will try to argue with their GM that there is some far flung exception which applies just to them, 
and they should be able to roll even though they are incapacitated. When that happens, this rule is for that 
player: rolling for a task while being incapacitated is at the GM’s discretion.
      [For example Nee has a light wound and needs to roll 4 successes on his task roll to succeed: 3 
successes for threshold plus 1 additional success due to the light damage modifier.]
      Characters can use their Endurance for recovering lost health levels. The Endurance attribute 
represents the character’s ability to heal damage with rest and aid. When resting, or getting aid, a character 
may roll their Endurance attribute once every 24 hours in game. Depending on their roll, the character might 
be able heal some of the damage they have taken during the scenario. Light damage is easy [1 success 
needed] to heal, moderate damage is average [2 successes needed], serious damage is hard [3 successes 
needed], and critical damage is extremely difficult [4 successes needed] to lower with your Endurance roll. If 
the character is incapacitated, she is out of luck. There is no healing on your own from that much damage. 
When an RSI is in the Matrix, she can roll the Endurance once while in the Matrix. This roll can be made in 
addition to any Real World Endurance rolls to reduce damage taken. The character in the Matrix can’t do 
anything else. Even though they can roll Endurance in the Matrix, they still must be attempting to rest and get 
aid. A GM can allow players to recover quicker based on GM discretion.
      [Say Nee has moderate damage from a fight earlier in the day. Now that she is back on the ship in the 
infirmary, there is time to heal. Nee has an Endurance attribute of rating 4 she can roll to heal damage. Nee 
rolls her Endurance, needing 2 successes to heal the moderate damage she has already.  Nee rolls a 6 + 5 + 3 + 
7. Since Nee has moderate damage she needs to roll 2 successes to heal all the damage. But say, for example, 
Nee is critically wounded—then the same roll of 2 successes would only heal two levels of her wounds, 
reducing the damage down to a moderate wound.]
      
*	Light damage - 	[+1 Threshold to all tasks] 
Character has sustained minor scrapes, bruises, or burns. He can recover quickly, usually through 
rest. At most, the character will needs band aid and aspirin. Light damage is equal to 20% Ops Error 
for Machines. ([The Matrix RPG].[Game Concepts].Attributes for A.I.) 

*	Moderate damage - 	[+2 Threshold to all tasks] 
A character with moderate damage has bleeding wounds, dislocated joints, and other injuries that 
can be stabilized with minimal medical care. Moderate damage is equal to 40% Ops Error for 
Machines. ([The Matrix RPG].[Game Concepts].Attributes for A.I.) 

*	Serious damage - 	[+3 Threshold to all tasks] 
Characters with serious damage could have broken bones, non-fatal bullet wounds, or traumatic 
brain injury. They will possibly recover without medical care, but that is not the recommended 
approach. Resting and lying still is definitely not enough to heal this damage properly. Infection is 
definitely a risk for anyone that has suffered serious damage. Serious damage is equal to 60% Ops 
Error for Machines. ([The Matrix RPG].[Game Concepts].Attributes for A.I.) 

*	Critical damage - 	[+4 Threshold to all tasks] 
A character who has suffered critical damage needs medical attention. Critical damage could be 
burns over a major portion of his body, amputated limbs, or a substantial loss of blood.  Critical 
damage is equal to 80% Ops Error for Machines. ([The Matrix RPG].[Game Concepts].Attributes for 
A.I.) 

*	Incapacitated - 	[+5 Threshold to all tasks] 
Characters can't move or control their body, they are possibly unconscious and quickly approaching 
death. 99% Ops Error for Machines. ([The Matrix RPG].[Game Concepts].Attributes for A.I.) 

*	Dead - 		[Nuff said.] 
You are pushing up daisies now. Time to make a new character.

   Skills
      When a character wants to use a skill to accomplish a task, they must make a task roll. Task roll dice 
pools are based on the level of the skill plus the rating of the default attribute. Default attributes are attributes 
paired with skills to give the character more dice to accomplish their task. Default attributes are the most 
appropriate attributes to learn that skill with. Skills and attributes go hand in hand. The skill augments the 
character’s natural ability through training and practice. Using a different default attribute could add flare to 
the character. For example, let’s say a character learned martial arts using her Focus attribute instead of the 
recommended Agility attribute. She can still perform martial arts tasks, but she learned her art through books 
and manuals instead of having a teacher that concentrated on her conditioning and strength. Since the 
character in my example is using a different attribute, she should describe her martial arts technique from that 
angle, or add some notes to her character background that explains why she learned the skill in a different 
way.
      It is assumed that characters will succeed when attempting tasks of easy or average difficulty. 
Gamemasters are free to make this assumption when the character has more dice to roll for the task than the 
amount of successes needed to accomplish the task. If you are rolling more dice than the task threshold, you 
can assume success for easy and average difficulty tasks (GM Discretion). Meaning the GM can waive your dice 
roll to save time.
      [For example, Nee is attempting to tumble across a roof without falling off the edge. Nee has 8 dice to 
roll for Agility + Gymnastics (2). This is an easy Gymnastics task, but since Nee has more dice to roll (8 dice) 
than the Task Threshold (2 successes needed), it is assumed Nee succeeded at tumbling across the roof 
without falling off and the players doesn’t need to roll dice for this task.]
      As characters gain experience and invest time into their skills they become more specialized. At level 4-
Master skill players can pick a detail from their skill that they are specialized in. For Gun Fighting that would be 
a Gorilla Gun handgun, then at level 4-Master the player could select a Plasma Gun. Specialization gives the 
characters and additional die every time they use that specialization. For example Gun Fighting 5-Teacher 
means the players has 2 guns they can use with +1 die in their die pool. A Berreta or Uzi are all usable with +1 
skill die (skill dice 5 + specialization 1 + attribute rating). Characters don’t have to choose a specialization right 
away, but they can’t pick the specialization right before they are about to do something. It should be 
roleplayed how this player decided to pick this specialization.
      If a character does not have a skill, he can default to an attribute of the GM’s choice. The character 
without the skills to help him has more difficulty trying to accomplish the task. When using a default attribute 
in place of a skill, the task roll is harder; this is represented by the task threshold being raised one level. So 
whatever the threshold would be for someone with the skill, add one more success to the total needed to 
accomplish the same feat. Plus that character does not get additional dice pool from the skill since they don’t 
have the skill. This time the character is just getting by. Maybe it is time for the character to invest experience 
in learning something new. 
      GMs can have the player roll any attribute they feel is appropriate for the task roll. Even if the default 
attribute is different, the GM can decide that, for this task roll, the character must use “attribute X.” Players 
should check with the GM; unless the GM says otherwise, players can assume their characters will use the 
Default Attribute listed under the skill’s description. Only one attribute can be used as the foundation for a 
skill task roll. If there are 2 skills listed as default attribute, only list one of those attributes once the character 
has learned the skill. After a skill is paid for and the default attribute is chosen, that will always be the 
character’s default attribute for that skill. 
      Skills have 5 levels of experience. They are described as interest level, novice level, practiced level, 
skilled level, master level, and teacher level. Why are skills described like this? What does this skill description 
mean to your character? The descriptions were added to make the storytelling experience more efficient. 
Instead of trying to remember what a level 3 skill does, the players can refer to the descriptor. Players are 
expected to roleplay a character’s skills based on the characters relative level of understanding about that 
skill.
      
*	0 - Interest Level 
You have been around people that know how to do this skill for some time, or you read materials 
on the subject. At best, this will give you a faint idea of what to do. When asked about the subject, 
you might actually have the right answer from time to time. 

*	1 - Novice Level 
You have done this skill before and, with some concentration, you could describe what you are 
doing to someone else. You make more mistakes than successes when under pressure, but with 
practice, things will get better.  

*	2 - Practiced Level 
You have done this skill enough that, if you concentrate, you will be able to accomplish what you 
are doing under pressure. Using this skill is beginning to become effortless. 

*	3 - Skilled Level 
You can look fancy, with some effort. Pressure is not a problem as long as your life doesn't depend 
on it. Using your skills now require no effort. 

*	4 - Master Level 
You can do the fancy stuff with no effort. Now you can use your skills in ways that were never 
taught to you. You know enough to be innovative, and do things others might not know about. You 
can even begin to push the skill to next level. You see things the way you used to do them, and 
realize how you can do them better. 

*	5 - Teacher Level 
You are a developer now. A dragon could be licking your neck and you would not have any trouble 
finishing what you are doing. You can teach people how to do what you do. You are beyond just 
performing your skill. Now you are developing new ways to use your skill and refining the way you 
used to do things.

   Skills in the Matrix
      Skills within the Matrix are different than other skills that were learned the old fashioned way with 
blood, sweat, and tears. A character can download skills from a skill chip into hardware in their brain. The 
Operator can also upload skills to RSI using their broadcast equipment. The action of uploading skills takes an 
entire combat turn, but the skill can then be used in the Matrix. Plus, a character gets to use the skills she 
knew already from her Real World experience. Like a computer character, a person in the Matrix can store the 
skill’s information until she needs to use it, at which point the skill will be available at the skill level it was 
programmed at. Skills on chips are rated by the level they were programmed to. A character cannot raise a 
downloaded skill through experience, like her other skills. Chipped (Matrix) skills must be reloaded at a higher 
level. That probably means the RSI needs to upgrade and get better equipment. Permanent skills remain in the 
character’s hardware even after she is unplugged, but temporary skills go away once the character is 
unplugged from the Matrix. Chipped skills can be changed every time a character enters the Matrix. Chipped 
skills can even be loaded while the RSI is in the Matrix. In order to load chipped skills during a mission, the 
Operator must make a Programming + Focus (2) task roll or else the hack won’t work. 
      Chipped Skills that are downloaded cannot be used by the character when they are not plugged into 
the Matrix. It is possible to practice a real world skill in the Matrix. If a character wants to learn a real world 
skill in the Matrix, they will need to purchase the skill with experience. Plus, the character will need to be 
loaded into the Matrix for however long it takes to learn the skill, minus resting. Real World skills can be used 
in the Matrix. If the same skill is downloaded, only the downloaded duplicate version of the skill will work in 
the Matrix. That means a player’s chipped skills will supersede the rating of their real world skills in the Matrix.

   Combat
      Combat turns are different than normal turns. Combat turns are shortened because combat is 
supposed to be fast-paced. A combat turn takes 6 seconds in game time. So when a player finishes one 
combat turn, his character has only used up 6 seconds of game time to complete his action. Each combat turn 
is divided into two parts, which everyone completes at the same time. First, the group “describes” what their 
characters do in the context of the combat. This is important because the narration determines what actually 
happens in the game world. Then, they “resolve” their dice rolls to see how well it all worked. The key to 
playing The Matrix RPG is to understand that everything happens exactly as the players describe it. Rolling 
the dice just tells you how much further those actions have advanced the scene. In a way, the dice are only 
there to let you know when to stop fighting. 
      During the description phase of combat, all players collaborate on what their characters do during that 
combat turn. The GM, with help from players, determines the combat damage of attacks during the 
Description phase. That way, everyone knows what to expect from combat. For each detail a player uses to 
describe his actions, he gets an extra die to add to his dice pool. Each player and the GM get veto power over 
the details used to gain extra dice for the combat roll. If the player’s detail is vetoed, that player has to stop 
there, or think of another plausible detail to replace it with. If multiple skills or attributes could be rolled, the 
GM picks the one most appropriate for this situation. If a character has to use a straight attribute for combat 
then he doesn’t get additional skill dice because a skill is not being used. The additional dice a character can 
get from details is limited by his skill level. A character with a level 1 skill can get a maximum of one additional 
die to his dice pool for adding details to his combat descriptions, no matter how many more cool details he 
tries to add. In contrast, a character with a level 5 skill can get a maximum of 5 additional dice to the dice pool 
for each detail in her combat description. After the players have finished describing what they plan to do, the 
GM gives the players their dice pool bonuses for combat details. By the end of the description phase the GM 
tells the players how many detail dice they get, how difficult their task roll is, what damage they will be 
inflicting with a successful strike, and the players state how many dice they are withholding to reduce damage. 
Withholding dice to reduce damage is explained below. Now the players roll to resolve their actions using 
their new adjusted dice pool. 
      This game assumes that characters are attacking and defending during the combat. Sometimes 
characters are surprised. To surprise the characters, GM and players roll Perception + Focus/Common Sense. 
Whichever character has more successes surprises the other, and ties fail to surprise anyone. If there is an 
ambush and the characters don’t have Perception, then they can default to an attribute, but that roll uses the 
attribute only. When a character is surprised, he only gets to roll half of his dice to do anything that combat 
(round down). 
      When resolving combat there are two types of opponents the players will face. Either the opponent is 
a thug or a nemesis.  When resolving combat against a thug, players only need to get one combat success to 
take the opponent out. The thugs don’t get to roll dice for combat. Thugs, as a total, get a “threat rating” 
which works the same as threshold. Threat rating is how many successes a character needs to defeat all of the 
thugs. This is a cumulative total—once the threat rating is reduced to zero, the combat is over. If players don’t 
score any successes, or if they are surprised, then they suffer damage from the thugs this combat turn. It is 
assumed that the thugs hit the heroes at least once a round. Damage from a thug combat is the same for 
every thug in that battle. If multiple thugs strike a character in the same turn the damage is not cumulative.  
[For example, say a group of PCs were fighting a threat rating 20 combat. Thug damage for this combat is a 
light wound. That means when the thugs do damage, they will inflict a light wound level. All thugs can only 
damage the character for a light wound no matter what the threat rating is.] A player can reduce damage from 
thugs automatically, during description phase players declare how many dice they are removing from their 
roll. This represents the character blocking or defending against the attack in some way. Every 2 dice removed 
from the character’s dice pool, before he rolls, will reduce thug damage by 1 wound level. [For example, Nee is 
battling against thugs who deal serious damage every time they hit. If Nee withholds 3 of his dice from the 
task roll, then Nee will reduce the thugs’ damage to nothing.]  
      The second type of opponent is a Nemesis. It takes more than one hit to knock down this video game 
boss. All combat against Nemeses is mano a mano. If two or more characters gang up on a Nemesis, the 
characters will need to take turns trading blows with the Nemesis. Each character completes both their 
description and resolution phases. When in combat with multiple characters, the Nemesis must split its dice 
pool equally amongst its opponents. So if there are 2 people fighting the same Nemesis “Bob,” then Bob must 
split his 8 dice to make 2 attacks. Nemeses have a dice pool and get to roll dice in combat, unlike thugs. 
Whichever combatant has more successes damages the other. Characters can remove a die from their dice 
pool as they do with thugs. Since a nemesis is a special opponent they can remove dice from their rolls like the 
players do. When trying to defend against multiple opponents any dice removed count towards all damage 
taken that round. So for example if a nemesis takes a light wound each from two players, but only withheld 
enough dice for a light wound. Then that nemesis will take a light wound from the second players since they 
could only resist a light wound total this combat. Removing dice from a character’s dice pool represents that 
the character is fighting defensively. Nemeses do damage based on the weapon or skill they are using in 
combat. GM determines damage for Nemeses attack during the description phase. 
      Combat works best if everyone talks about what they expect from the game. For some players, the 
gamemaster might leave gaping holes in her description. Instead of players getting down on the gamemaster 
for leaving out details, the player should use that hole as an opportunity to describe what he feels is missing. 
Players should not hijack the storyline, but they also shouldn’t pass on a good action because they didn’t hear 
exactly what they were waiting to hear from the gamemaster. Players should also ask the gamemaster as 
many questions as they need to fully envision the action and what is happening in the story. If there is a 
conflict during combat resolution, I like to order the description of the combat actions based on the 
combatant with the most net successes. Combat actions happen simultaneously but the characters with the 
most net success have their combat actions described first. Then I describe the rest of the combatants actions 
based on the next highest amount of combat successes. The first combatant is a combat star. That character 
looks the best during combat and their actions should be showcased for the combat turn. I personally like to 
use miniatures placed on a dry erase map during the entire gaming session; use miniatures, dice, Cheetos, or 
whatever is handy to represent the players and their opponents. When combat or something important 
happens, I have the players move their minis to where they should be on the map. For the rest of that scene, 
we use the minis to help us keep track of the action. This game doesn’t require miniatures, but having some 
and a dry erase map could be a good idea. For this game we are using a virtual tabletop program with maps, 
and tokens for players. This will be outdated soon, but we actually use Google+ Hangouts and load a few apps. 
So far Tabletop Forge (www.tabletopforge.com), roll20, and Infrno.net have worked well for me to play 
games. The first 2 virtual tabletops, Tabletop Forge and Roll20, work in Google+ Hangouts.
      
   Threat Rating
      Threat rating is used for thugs in combat. That same threat rating is used by the game to helps monitor 
that rising and falling action for characters plugged into the Matrix. Action seems to build while characters are 
in the Matrix. The Matrix is constantly on alert for anomalies. Any reports of strange happenings or 
unexplainable events can raise the threat rating of the Matrix. Threat rating increases and decreases based on 
the anomalies the A.I. discovers and eliminates. The Matrix tries to keep reality believable. This is referred to 
as the coherent reality of the Matrix. If the coherent reality is out of balance the Matrix power plant could fail. 
Failure of the Matrix power plant would destroy all the bluepills still plugged in.
      Threat Rating assists the gamemaster in determining the power level of the threats that the players 
will encounter. Threat rating for combat can be equal to or less than the current threat rating of the Matrix. 
For example if the group has a threat rating of 10 for the scenario then the thugs they are in combat with 
could have up to a 10 Threat Rating.
      When the threat rating is high characters will encounter Agents. Lower threat ratings will attract police 
attention. Medium threat rating means the characters encounter new A.I. programs that are not Agents but 
still protects the Matrix. Threat Rating is optional. Gamemasters should not look at threat rating as a mechanic 
they must use. 
      
      Here are examples of actions that would increase the threat rating of the Matrix:
?	Bluepills seeing someone use Matrix Feats that break or bend the rules of the Matrix will 
increase the threat rating.
?	Being identified for breaking the law.
?	The character’s reputation adds to their threat rating if they are identified by authorities when 
they are in the Matrix.
?	Bluepills dying is noticed. Bluepills are food for the Machines. They notice when the food dies 
unexpectedly.
      
      Here are examples of actions that will decrease the threat rating of the Matrix:
?	Characters hack, crack, or break into the Matrix computer systems to erase incriminating 
information.
?	Characters lay low from the authorities. Hiding while they let the heat cool down. Sneaking 
around as much as possible.
?	Characters ditch or destroy any physical evidence they might have on their person. A cellphone 
that has been traced to the scene of the crime is worth ditching in the trash.
?	Run. Leave the area, or leave the Matrix. Whatever it takes it get away.
?	Characters entering the Matrix through a secure hardline will lower the threat rating by one for 
each success the Operator rolls on their task to secure a hardline.
      
      
   Attributes for A.I.
A.I. should be played as NPC’s only. I am outlining the attributes for A.I. so a gamemaster can play both sides 
of the game. These attributes are in addition to an A.I.’s attributes when in the Matrix. For example an Agent 
will have rating 1-5 attributes when in a human RSI, in addition to the A.I. attributes listed below. When an A.I. 
is in a frame it will have the frames attributes in addition to their normal attributes listed below. A.I. must take 
an entire turn to overtake a bluepill’s RSI.

*	Priority Level -  
A.I. programs are organized by control priority level. The lower the number, the less important you 
are to the System’s controls. A high priority number can give a program with a lower priority 
number instructions. If two programs have the same priority and they are issuing commands, then 
there is a conflict. The system source will need to resolve the conflict. Priority levels will shift if a 
higher priority in your chain is destroyed or neutralized. Basically if an A.I. dies, other A.I. get 
promoted. Also, A.I. can be promoted by successfully acting under the operating protocols for the 
operating system. For example, an A.I. program that operates under an Agent O.S. can gain priority 
levels by neutralizing or repairing system errors—errors like RSI hacker termination without other 
RSIs in the construct noticing. Priority level is based on A.I. experience, luck, longevity, and skill. 
Priority level does not have a maximum number. 

*	Virtuosity- An A.I. program’s aptitude at self-correcting Ops errors. The A.I. must be inactive and 
resting, but he/she does not need to be off-line. Virtuosity is a percentage. This percentage is the 
amount of code that can be repaired by an A.I. properly recuperating. 

*	Operating System- The Operating System is the A.I. equivalent of a brain. Depending on the A.I., 
the Operating System default frame works better or worse than it was designed to. Agents exist in 
the Matrix power plant. A Sentinel is a guard A.I. who prefers the Squidi frames. If an A.I. is not in its 
preferred frame, it suffers penalties when it controls a non-preferred frame. GM determines the 
amount of increased Ops Errors the A.I. suffers for trying to operate in a different frame. Skills and 
attributes for A.I. equal 99% - “Ops Error”  

*	Ops Errors- Percentage of Ops System errors an A.I. program has acquired. These errors hinder 
his/her program’s performance. There are many ways an A.I. can increase their Ops Errors. If an A.I. 
ever strays from his operating protocols or does not follow command, Ops Error is increased. This is 
because A.I. is designed to perform a certain way, and when she does not, she is performing less 
like a machine and more like a human. Too many operating errors will eventually degrade her 
Operating System to the point of no longer working. Damage from combat will increase Ops Errors 
in an A.I. program. (as listed in [The Matrix RPG].[Game Concepts].Health). The Ops Error is an A.I.’s 
chance of succeeding in critical moments. When an A.I. gets a failure or critical failure they roll an 
Ops Error to see if their computer code overcomes the failure. For example say the A.I. fails, or 
critically fails at shooting a target. They could roll under their current Ops error to barely succeed at 
that task.
      
   Attributes for Frames (Sentinels)
Sentinel frames are similar to vehicles. Sentinels use these main attributes above (Priority Level, Virtuosity, 
Ops Sys, and Ops Errors) in addition to these vehicle attributes:

*	Speed- This is how fast the ship can travel when pushed to its limits. The Vehicle speed rating adds 
its dice to the players dice pool when rolling to pilot the vehicle.
*	Agility- This is how difficult it is to operate the craft at speed and over difficult terrain. Can this 
piece of $#!t squeeze through an abandoned building without losing its engine? Agility rating 
reduces the task threshold for piloting test.
*	Fuel (remaining/maximum)- Fuel is a rating comprised of two numbers. The first number is the 
amount of fuel cells remaining for the ship to use as power. The second number is the maximum 
number of fuel cells the ship is designed to hold. One day is the average life for a fuel cell. These 
fuel cells can be recharged repeatedly. A single fuel cell takes one hour to fully recharge. All 
vehicles are listed with their maximum fuel cell rating.

   Attributes for Humans
Humans have attributes that range from 1 to 5. Common Sense, Focus, Agility, and Strength are all human 
attributes. Common Sense and Focus are attributes that represent a human’s mental qualities. Agility and 
Strength are attributes that represent a human’s physical qualities. The Endurance attribute represents with 
how well a character can heal damage. Nomads and humans on the surface are slightly different than their 
underground counterparts. Surface humans are stockier, thick skinned, and hairier because of the conditions 
their bodies have adapted too.

*	Common Sense– is for when you need answers quickly. Fast talkers and swindlers have a high 
common sense, so they can out-wit other people and keep ahead of them. 
*	Focus– is the character’s ability to concentrate and ignore outside stimulation. Learning and 
memory fall under this part of the human persona. This will govern how much willpower a human 
has over his body.
*	Agility- is how quickly and easily a character can move, especially under pressure. Running speed 
and dexterity are based on Agility.
*	Strength- is physical and muscular power. This will determine how much a person can lift and 
move. The overall physical toughness of a person is represented by Strength.
*	Endurance- How long can a person survive under mental or physical stress? A person’s fortitude, 
health, and hardiness are represented by their Endurance. 

   Matrix Ego
When a character has a neural interface implanted, he/she acquires additional attributes. These are basic 
attributes only usable in the simulated construct of the Matrix. Both attributes start at 0 when they first 
manifest. CyberZen has a maximum rating of 5.

*	CyberZen- is the knowledge that the Matrix is a simulacrum. That enlightenment allows characters 
to attempt extraordinary tasks—they can attempt tasks that seem impossible. CyberZen can be 
used in multiple ways. 

1) Normally CyberZen is used in conjunction with special Matrix only skills that are called Matrix 
Feats. [For example, if a player wants extra strength their character rolls Cyberzen + Matrix Feat 
Increase Attribute. Every success increases the attribute die pool of their choice by +1 die. They can 
add that die pool to every strength action for the remainder of that scene.] 

2) CyberZen can be used by itself to attempt a Matrix Feat without having the actual Matrix Feat 
skill. The player describes what they are trying to do. Then the GM determines what is possible and 
sets the threshold for the task roll. The character only gets to roll CyberZen dice for this default 
Matrix Feat task roll.

3) CyberZen rating is used to set the limit for the number of skills a RSI can download. The 
maximum amount of downloadable skills is equal to CyberZen rating times 3. One third of those 
downloads are permanent and stay in the character’s brain until they are willfully erased. The other 
two thirds of their downloadable skills are temporary and get erased each time they are unplugged.  

   CyberZen and The Gift
	Humans plugged into the Matrix have a CyberZen score of zero (0). CyberZen ratings range between 0 
and 5. Characters must have a CyberZen of 5 before they can purchase the Gift upgrade. Once they have 
upgraded their CyberZen to The Gift, it is possible for that character to “break the rules” of the Matrix. With 
the Gift characters can use the Rule Breaker description of Matrix Feats. Without the Gift upgrade, a character 
can only “bend the rules” of the Matrix. Without the Gift a character can only use the Rule Bending description 
of Matrix Feats. To have the gift is too know it, balls to bones. The Matrix reality is governed by rules, and 
these Matrix rules are the science you studied in school. Most people without CyberZen don’t think they can 
break the laws of physics just by believing they will, so they don’t even try. But with the Gift, the One can bend 
and break the laws of science. When a person breaks the rules of the Matrix, their actions look like 
superpowers. CyberZen actions contradict the Coherent Reality of the MATRIX. 
      Characters that wish to be like Neo must spend the experience to buy the Gift. The gamemaster should 
have the player purchase the gift as soon as possible. There should be some compelling, in-game reason why 
that player has the gift. A messiah does not come along every day. Also, once the player purchases The Gift, 
the gamemaster and player agree that only the gamemaster knows when the character can use the Gift to 
break rules in the Matrix. The gamemaster observes the character and at some point during the campaign, the 
gamemaster says the player is The One and that choice is not reversible. Once the Gift is active, the player is 
able to defy the rules of the Matrix and the gamemaster must deal with those consequences. Having the Gift 
can be a game breaker, so think it through carefully. Even without the Gift, RSI’s are pretty powerful in the 
Matrix.
	Think of something you want to do and the GM will determine the threshold for that task. When 
attempting a CyberZen task, roll your CyberZen  (difficulty). If the character succeeds at the task roll, then his 
CyberZen task is successful. You don’t know what you can do until you try it, such as superhero flight. The 
more successes a character rolls, the better the outcome. But some things are impossible, even with God-like 
CyberZen. Characters cannot change an RSI’s thoughts. It is also impossible for CyberZen to allow a character 
to control A.I.—their cold computer-calculated thought processes are immune to CyberZen. CyberZen does 
not allow a character to bring the dead back to life. Characters cannot create another RSI using CyberZen.
      
   Character Creation
1.	Think of a background history for your character. How did your character get to where he/she is 
today? Think of it this way: if you were to attend an interview for a job that you really wanted, 
what should the boss know about you?
2.	Pick a Path for the character to follow.
3.	Gamemaster determines character generation points (CGP) for the campaign. The points are to be 
used as you wish between skills and attributes.
4.	Character Generation cost for Humans:
*	Attributes - Cost 1 CGP for each rating level you want of an attribute. For example, rating 6 
Strength cost 6 CGP. 
*	Matrix Ego - Cost 
*	Skills - Any important skills that are rated Master or Teacher must somehow be explained in 
your character background. Characters cannot buy Downloaded Skills with character generation 
points. 
Novice 	= 	1 CGP 
Practiced	= 	2 CGP 
Skilled	 	= 	3 CGP 
Master 	= 	4 CGP 
Teacher 	= 	5 CGP 
*	All Characters start with a Native language at 3-Skilled Level. This means they can read and 
write their native language.
5.	Characters’ equipment is based on the campaign. Gamemasters should help characters get their 
equipment list together. Equipment is traded and bartered for in the real world.
6.	Submit to your gamemaster for approval.

   Recommendations for PC creation
*	Average campaign- 15 CGP for attributes (18 CGP for RSI’s since they have Cyberzen attribute also), 18 
CGP for skills.
*	Above average campaign- 20 CGP for attributes (24 CGP for RSI’s since they have Cyberzen attribute also), 
24 CGP for skills

   Alternate character generation ideas
If characters want to roll their stats, they can roll a d10 for each attribute or skill. It is up to the GM how many 
times they want the player to reroll her numbers if she doesn’t like them.

Below is a chart for random skill & attribute ratings:
10 	= Teacher, Attribute rating (5)
8-9 	= Master, Attribute rating (4)
4-7 	= Skilled, Attribute rating (3)
2-3 	= Practiced, Attribute rating (2)
1 	= Novice, Attribute rating (1)

   Improve PC with experience
*	Raise Attribute = 	Next level in experience * 2
*	The Gift = 		65 experience
*	New Skill  = 	3 experience points to start at “Interest Level”
*	Raise Skill = 	Next level in experience
*	CyberZen = 	Next level in experience * 3 

   Awarding Experience
*	Roleplay award- at the end of game, all the players and the GM vote on the best player.
*	GM award- players decide how much experience to give the GM.
*	Each game should average 3-5 experience for the characters, depending on how difficult things were and if 
they won any awards from the GM or players for how well they played the game.
*	Who was the combat star of this session? Combat Stars should be considered for additional experience.
*	Did the characters survive the session?
?
  Walking the Path
      There is a difference between knowing the path you must take in life and walking that path. Here we 
describe the most common paths. Choose the path that most suits you.
      
   Humans
      Every citizen in the world is considered to be one of Zion’s children, since Zion was one of the first 
human cities. Most city dwellers, no matter what their true geographical location, will refer to themselves as 
Children of Zion. Nomads, however, do not make this claim. If you are a civilized human that believes in the 
society and the laws it is governed by, then you are considered a citizen. Citizens usually prefer to live in 
outpost or cities. The ice desert of the Real World is also inhabited by some citizens.
      
      RSI Hacker (“Ressies,” or Residual Self Image)- RSI Hackers pirate their input/output carrier signal to 
broadcast RSIs into the Matrix. Most RSIs were raised in the Matrix as pod-born humans and were rescued 
(the slang for a pod-born still plugged in is a lamb, or bluepill). Young minds are easier to rescue. RSIs are 
typically rescued between the ages of 9 and 18. In Zion, the newly released RSIs are raised in orphanages until 
citizens have space in their homes to adopt them. Citizens sometimes have family members they will adopt 
after they have been freed from the Matrix. RSIs risk their lives to keep the human race alive and hopefully 
one day free. To be an RSI, characters must have a cybernetic neural interface implanted in their bodies. 
      Most RSI Hackers in the Matrix are part of the Zion military. Zion crews are not allowed to keep 
downloaded Matrix skills private. Whatever they download must be shared. Zion crews consist of a Captain, 
First Mate, Pilot, Operator, and Other Crew. The Zion military has specific uniforms and the color of the tunic 
depends on the crew-member’s rank in the military. Yellow tunics are worn by “other crew members,” blue 
tunics are worn by the First Mates, gray tunics are worn by the Operators, and red tunics are worn by the 
Captains. Ships can hold three to eleven crew members.
      
      Homegrown (Freeborn)- Humans that are born naturally, in the Real World. Homegrown humans have 
never been implanted into the Matrix. Zion Homegrown humans are dedicated to the resistance movement. 
These humans are everywhere and are becoming more and more common as the population grows. 
Homegrown humans can be implanted with cybernetics, but most keep themselves free of the Machine's 
influence.
      
      Matrix "Operator"- It is recommended this character be an NPC (non-player character) played by the 
GM. Operators get an RSI Hacker in and out of the Matrix through a hardline. Operators remain in the real 
world and view the MATRIX construct from the outside in pure Matrix code. Operators have read only access 
to the Matrix. Seeing the Matrix in code allows the Operator to see things that the RSIs can’t see. Someone 
submerged in the sensory simulation of the MATRIX cannot see what things really are. Think about it. That's 
what the MATRIX was designed for—it keeps people from seeing the truth. Operators need to have the skill 
Programming. Operators load hacked programs of equipment with an RSI when she broadcasts into the 
Matrix. Operators also download RSIs additional chipped skills while they are in the Matrix.
      Operators do a lot of work to keep everyone—RSIs and crew—safe. First, an Operator spoofs the ship’s 
broadcast signal. Spoofing camouflages the ship’s broadcast signal by giving the ship a fake authorization—in 
essence, faking the ship’s login and password to the Matrix. Then an Operator secures hardlines for the RSI 
Hacker to broadcast their input/output carrier signal on. In the Matrix, telecommunications equipment 
represents hardlines. Usually, the more hardlines that are secured, the more exits the RSI Hackers have once 
they are in the Matrix. Operators commonly lose hardlines, but with more than one available, they can usually 
get the RSI out through another one. Everyone always hopes that the new hardline is close to the RSI. The 
more skilled your Operator is, the closer the hardline will probably be. If the RSIs have time before they are 
loaded into the Matrix, they can pick up simulacra equipment in the Loading Program (see glossary). Simulacra 
equipment is limited by the type of hardline they are moving through. It easy enough for the Operator to 
transmit small- to medium-sized equipment with the RSI, but the bigger the equipment, the larger the 
hardline needs to be to transport that much data. For people, the Operator only needs a hardline the size of a 
phone. However, telephones only have enough bandwidth for one person to use at a time. For vehicles and 
larger items, a cell tower or phone array is necessary. 
      Once the RSI are in the Matrix, an Operator’s work is not done. Operators are constantly watching out 
for the computer system’s anti-virus and intrusion countermeasures. For example, it is not uncommon for the 
system to cut hardlines in order to destroy exits for RSIs. The system is constantly looking for anomalies, and 
yes, Zion RSI Hackers are anomalies. The ship’s Operator needs to be ready to save an RSI’s butt at a moment’s 
notice. Operators can send data and talk with the RSIs, but aside from that, Operators cannot change things in 
the Matrix from their broadcasting console. 
      Hardlines are not considered secure if people within the Matrix observe the RSIs appear as if from out 
of nowhere. A hardline is only secure if there is no one there to see the RSIs broadcast in. If the system sees 
the RSI Hacker broadcast into the Matrix, that hardline will be cut and an Agent will be sent immediately. In 
addition, if the Agent(s) capture any of the crew members’ RSIs, the broadcast signal can be traced right back 
to the ship. Once the ship’s location is discovered, Agents send out Sentinels, or Frames, to do the rest of the 
work.
      
      Mercenaries- They don't care what side they are playing for. The only thing that matters is who pays 
more. Mercenaries play their own side, always. A mercenary could be a Soldier, Operator, Hot Shot Pilot, or 
RSI. Whatever roles they fill, they are always getting paid for the services they provide.
      
      Hot Shot Pilot- You can always hire a Hot Shot Pilot if you have the money or equipment to trade as 
payment. A pilot is a pilot, but a hot shot pilot is a way of life. They are the only ones crazy enough to pilot 
your ship through a service tunnel and escape. Most hot shot pilots wouldn’t be worth anything without a 
ship. When you hire a pilot you are hiring her ship, too.
      
      Punksmith- Punksmiths are scavengers or traders, depending on what part of the deal you are in on. If 
they are working for you, they are the best scavengers who can make anything out of the parts they have on 
hand. If they are selling their equipment, then they are traders who will take you for everything you have on 
hand. Punksmiths are mechanics, engineers, salesmen, and whatever else they need to be. A punksmith will 
make unique items every time. Say, for example, they are making pistols. Every pistol they make will shoot like 
it is supposed to, but it will be made slightly differently each time. Punksmiths never make two pieces of 
equipment the same way, like a snowflake, each piece of equipment is unique.
      
   The Machines
      A.I. Programs Non-/Sentient - It is true that they are artificially intelligent, but they are not free-willed. 
They can make decisions, but they have a set of protocols, to which they must strictly adhere. A.I. are no 
longer restricted to circuit boards. A.I. can exist in a gel made of plasma energy—a gelatinous material 
developed by A.I. that stores all the program’s information. These gelatinous matrices are extremely stable 
and have the ability to occupy a frame and power it. The plasma gel is called cognitive plasma. The plasma is 
not mobile.
      
      Agents- A.I. programs that are designed to delete anomalies in the Matrix simulation. Agents have the 
ability to take over any RSI still hardwired to the Matrix. When Agents take over the RSI, it becomes the Agent 
in every way. When the RSI wakes up after the takeover, he has no memory of that period. If the Agent dies, 
the RSI they took over will die also.
      
      Frames- A.I. can occupy a robotic body. The evolution of these robotic bodies can be divided into 
generations by the designs of their Frames. Since an A.I.’s physical self is nothing but cognitive plasma, they 
can occupy any robotic frames that they wish. The frame must first be empty of any other cognitive plasma. 
When more than one A.I. is in a Frame, only the one with a higher Priority level can be in control. The other 
A.I. is essentially a co-pilot with little control besides what control the main A.I. allows it to have.
      
      Squidi Sentinel Frames- Squidies, or Sentinels, are A.I. residing in a Squidi frame. Sentinel A.I. are the 
watchdogs for the Machines. Sentinels are designed to hunt humans. They are exceptionally good at it. When 
the Machines discover a better way of hunting humans, they will design a new sentinel frame for the A.I. to 
inhabit. 
      ?
  Skills
Skills are broad and meant to be used as guidelines for what your character knows. Each character’s 
background gives that skill life. Use the general descriptions to help you imagine where to start.
      
   General Skills
General list of skills characters can use in the Real World or in the Matrix.

Aircraft Piloting - [Agility]
Description - Piloting a hovercraft and other vehicles that stay airborne during operation. This includes 
landing, stopping, combat maneuvers (basically whatever you can think of to get the hell away from danger), 
high speed control, etc. 

Ambidextrous - [Agility]
Description - Ability to use both hands equally well for anything. 

Archery - [Agility]
Description - Propelling arrows with the use of a bow or crossbow. This will also allow the character to do 
fletching. 

Balancing Feats - [Agility]
Description - Walk tight ropes, juggle, stack plates, etc. 

Dancing - [Agility]
Description - Ballroom dancing, club dancing, ballet, stage performance, etc. 

Driving - [Agility]
Description - See groundcraft piloting. 

Ground Craft Piloting - [Agility]
Description - There are still some wheeled and tracked vehicles in use. This skill represents the ability to control 
and pilot such craft. 

Gun Fighting - [Agility]
Description - Weapons that use gunpowder, or explosives, to propel a metal slug at your target. Most of this 
class of weapon has a trigger button of some sort. Examples of guns covered by this skill are Handguns, Rifles, 
Shotguns, Submachine Guns, Assault Rifles, Artillery Guns, and Machine Guns. 

Knife Fighting - [Agility]
Description - Fighting with knives using martial fighting skills like Eskrima, Esgrima Criolla, The Andalusian 
legacy, or Scherma di Stiletto Siciliano. This is an athletic, close combat form of fighting. 

Martial Arts - [Agility]
Description - Formal hand to hand combat techniques, Akido, Karate, Ju Jitsu, Kendo, etc. Please pick individual 
styles as each of your fighting skills. 

Polearm fighting - [Agility]
Description - Fighting with close combat weapons in which the main fighting part of the weapon is on the end 
of a long shaft. Axes, maces, and morning stars are considered polearms. 

Sleight of hand - [Agility]
Description - Tricking the eye to see or not see a hand gesture through deception, magic tricks. 

Blade Fighting - [Agility]
Description - Using bladed weapons. Swords are very popular weapons against the Machines in the Real 
World, because they have been developed to cut through metal. 

Thai Boxing - [Agility]
Description - Thai boxing, a form of hand to hand combat. 

Throwing Weapons - [Agility]
Description - The skill to aim, balance, and throw a weapon with deadly effectiveness. Throwing weapons 
include knives, spears, shurikens, and rocks. 

Escape Bonds - [Agility/Common Sense]
Description - The ability to get out of handcuffs, ropes, and avoid being held. 

Sci Fi Weapons - [Agility/Focus]
Description - This skill is specific to the weapon the character is using, such as a Plasma Cannon or Laser Rifle. 
These types of weapons are so unique that a person has to learn each one individually. 

Acrobatics - [Agility/Strength]
Description - Flips, vaults, rolls, and tumbling. 

Acting - [Common Sense]
Description - Pretending to be someone else, creating emotions at will. 

Animal Training/Handling - [Common Sense]
Description - Training animals to listen to commands, domesticating animals. 

Bartering - [Common Sense]
Description - Used to levy better deals in trades. General knowledge of an item's value. 

Blackmarket - [Common Sense]
Description - Locating and bargaining in the black market. The character knows who to talk to and what to say 
to find or sell on the black market. 

Coercion - [Common Sense]
Description - Seduction, manipulation, scamming, intimidation, bluffing to get what they want. 

Conceal - [Common Sense]
Description - Hiding objects and self. 

Diplomacy - [Common Sense]
Description - The ability to convince others of seeing another point of view, and to cut through red tape easier 
than others. 

Disguises - [Common Sense]
Description - Concealing identity with makeup, clothes, change of appearance. 

Gambling - [Common Sense]
Description - Statistically improve chances of winning games. 

Gather Information - [Common Sense]
Description - Conversing with others to collect information without notice. 

Guerrilla Tactics - [Common Sense]
Description - Irregular warfare with small groups of fighters who use tactics like ambushes, sabotage, element 
of surprise, and raids. 

History of Zion - [Common Sense]
Description - A general knowledge of the human history of Zion, or any city or area of choice. 

Interrogate - [Common Sense]
Description - Using force and/or manipulation to obtain information. 

Nomad Clan Customs - [Common Sense]
Description - Every nomad clan has special customs and ways of doing things, rituals they must perform, etc. 
This is a knowledge every clansman must have for her clan. More than likely, the higher a character's skill, the 
higher placed she is in the clan. 

Philosophy - [Common Sense]
Description - Study of problems in the fields of knowledge, reality, values, morals, mind, and existence. 
Philosophers address these problems using critical thinking and logic. 

Photography - [Common Sense]
Description - Digital or film, journalistic, art, sports, picture composition, and modeling. 

Religion - [Common Sense]
Description - Study of religious beliefs, behaviors, holidays, traditions, and religious institutions of a specific 
religion. 

Remote Piloting - [Common Sense]
Description - Controlling anything mechanized with remote access controls. Vehicles can have remotes, 
sentinel frames can be augmented (when not occupied by an A.I.) to have remote control capability also. Must 
have the skills for the vehicle type that is being piloted. 

Snooping - [Common Sense]
Description - Knowledge of how to set up bugging devices, detect hidden microphones, video cameras, etc. 

Stalk - [Common Sense]
Description - To follow someone unnoticed, shadowing. 

Stealth - [Common Sense]
Description - Knowledge of how not to be detected. General camouflage and silence techniques. Hide while 
moving. 

Surveillance - [Common Sense]
Description - Build and use security with cameras, motion sensors. 

Thieving - [Common Sense]
Description - Stealing, pickpocketing. 

Track - [Common Sense]
Description - To follow someone who cannot be seen by following a trail or clues of his/her passage. 

Linguist - [Common Sense/Focus]
Description - Understand basic structure of languages, figure out words and phrases from similarly familiar 
languages. 

Perception - [Common Sense/Focus]
Description - This is for the gamemaster to make an objective check as to whether a character notices 
something or not. It can be as simple as seeing a canyon off in the distance, or as critical as noticing whether 
there is an ambush ahead. The ability to notice the common things, and pick out the details and the 
unexpected. 

PunkSmithing - [Common Sense/Strength]
Description - Designing technology from other scavenged bits of machines and broken things. 

Salvage - [Common Sense/Strength]
Description - The ability to, with the right tools, remove and collect things of value from where they are. 
Examples of this are, if a character understands sentinels' hardware, he can remove parts from the frame in a 
way that those parts are preserved and retain their trade value. 

Running - [Endurance]
Description - The knowledge of how to pace oneself and increase running endurance. Most Desert clansmen 
can run for days with little to no rest. 

Survival - [Endurance]
Description - Knowledge of how to survive in a harsh environment such as the wilderness, jungle, mountains, 
plains, or desert. 

Ice Desert Survival - [Endurance/Focus]
Description - A general knowledge of surface arctic survival, foraging skills, flora & fauna, dangerous weather 
conditions, ice climbing, and other cold climate knowledge. 

Rock climbing - [Endurance/Strength]
Description - The knowledge of things like how to belay, climbing techniques, climbing cracks, lead climbing, 
placing gear, setting anchors, top rope climbing, climbing communication, self rescue and other essential skills. 

Aiming - [Focus]
Description - Aiming is done in game so the character can have a special effect. On a successful aiming task 
the PC can have a special roleplay event happen. Something the player describes to add to the story. 

Art - [Focus]
Description - Creating works of art, drawing and painting, sculptures, airbrushing. 

Biology - [Focus]
Description - Knowledge of the science of biology and life forms. Covers genetics to ecosystems. 

Chemistry - [Focus]
Description - Knowledge of the science of understanding and mixing chemicals elements. 

City Speak - [Focus]
Description - The knowledge of the tones, inflections, and general jargon that will get you around in the city. 
Specify the city that you can use City Speak in. 

Demolitions - [Focus]
Description - Knowledge of how to use demolitions, analyze and disarm bombs, set explosives, and make 
explosives. 

Electronics - [Focus]
Description - Knowledge of how to operate, analyze, repair, and build electronic devices. This is a general 
electronics repair skill. The character knows how to mess with do-dads and usually keeps things in general 
working order. 

Encryption - [Focus]
Description - Encode cryptographic information, crack codes. 

First Aid - [Focus]
Description - Stabilizing wounds, treating minor burns and cuts, CPR. 

Forgery - [Focus]
Description - Create duplicates of documents, fake IDs, counterfeiting, etc. 

Geology - [Focus]
Description - Science of studying solid earth. Geology gives humans insight into what makes up the earth 
around them and its origins. 

Gunsmith - [Focus]
Description - A person who repairs, modifies, designs, or builds guns. 

Hand signals - [Focus]
Description - This skill is very specific to small groups. It is used in clans for communicating when the 
conversation is supposed to be private. Each group has its own set of hand signals. 

Hypnotize - [Focus]
Description - Getting people into a mental state that makes them more susceptable to suggestions. 

Law - [Focus]
Description - Knowledge of the local laws and legal organizations. 

Leadership - [Focus]
Description - Ability to gain the respect of a group of people and make them susceptible to influence. 

Locksmithing - [Focus]
Description - Understand locking mechanisms, ability to unlock doors, safes, combination, key, and electronic 
pads. 

Medical Knowledge - [Focus]
Description - Knowledge of how to stitch people up. An understanding of first aid, battle field style surgery, 
proper sterilization techniques, etc. At the teacher Level, the character can perform surgery on people. 

Navigate - [Focus]
Description - Ability to use navigation equipment to plot and hold a course. 

System Operations - [Focus]
Description - The physical and theoretical knowledge of the Machines, sentinels, and frames. The 
understanding of how they tick, what they do, etc. 

Vehicle Repair (by piloting type) - [Focus]
Description - The character can rebuild an engine, set a hovercraft's anti-grav controls. Depending on what it is 
and the type of equipment one has, the character can fix whatever is in front of them. 

Writing - [Focus]
Description - The ability to write down spoken words in one's own language, to organize thoughts into written 
forms like poetry, prose, fiction, and non-fiction. 

Blacksmith - [Focus/Strength]
Description - Metallurgy, melting, and casting new objects from various metals and scraps. 

Boxing - [Strength]
Description - Trained fist fighting. 

Brawling - [Strength]
Description - Untrained street fighting. 

Fitness - [Strength]
Description - Ability to work out and keep physically active to improve health. 

Parkor - [Strength]
Description - A physical discipline which focuses on efficient movement around obstacles. 

Swimming - [Strength]
Description - Studying the mechanics of swimming for extra speed, and strength. The knowledge of different 
swim strokes like freestyle, backstroke, breaststroke, and butterfly. 

   Matrix Feat Skills
Matrix Feats are special skills that work differently than other skills. Matrix Feats are one of the few skills that 
only work in the Matrix simulation. They are useless outside the Matrix simulation. Matrix Feats are the 
character’s ways of Bending or Breaking Matrix laws of physics. Matrix Feats cannot be downloaded into your 
brain like other skills. Nor can Matrix Feats be programmed. To any computer Matrix Feats should not work. 
Matrix Feats are a series of errors and nonsense loops. Matrix Feats must be acquired by paying experience to 
learn and develop that specific Matrix Feat skill. They don’t specialize like other skills. When a character 
reaches Master Level in a Matrix Feat they are not allowed to pick a specialization for a +1 die.

Matrix Feats are not limited to the list in this book. If a player and GM can agree on rule bending and breaking 
descriptions then they can make another Matrix Feat. Matrix Feats can only be learned, they can’t be 
programmed. Sometimes a character doesn’t have the experience to buy a Matrix Feat but they want to use 
the power on the fly. GM’s can allow characters to only roll their CyberZen versus a threshold set by the GM. If 
they make the threshold then the GM grants them a very limited Matrix Feat that works to get the job done, 
for now.

Matrix Feats have two descriptions. The rule bending description is what characters use without the Gift. The 
rule bending description is a weaker version of the Matrix Feat. They are still superpowers but they aren’t god 
like with the ability to break the rules of the Matrix, yet. Once the player upgrades their CyberZen and buys 
the Gift they have access to both the descriptions. The rule breaking description is a more powerful version of 
the Matrix Feat that usually breaks the rules of the Matrix. 

Matrix Feat “Acute Hearing” - [CyberZen]
Rule Bender Feat: The ability to hear sounds that would normally be too low or too far off to hear with normal 
hearing.
Rule Breaker Feat: Character can hear any frequency even those that are normally inaudible to human ears.

Matrix Feat “Atmospheric Adaptation” - [CyberZen]
Rule Bender Feat: Character can breathe noxious gases without any adverse effects. Even though characters 
can inhale noxious gases they are unable to breathe underwater.
Rule Breaker Feat: Character can breathe water, noxious fumes/gases, or go without oxygen completely.

Matrix Feat “Blindness” - [CyberZen]
Rule Bender Feat: The characters must be able to touch their target. With a simple touch the character can 
make a RSI blind. They can affect a number of targets equal to their Matrix feat rating.
Rule Breaker Feat: Character can make a redpill RSI blind while they are plugged into the Matrix. The effect last 
as long as the targets stay in the Matrix.

Matrix Feat “Change Material” - [CyberZen]
Rule Bender Feat: The character has the ability to change the weight, size, and the color of an item 
temporarily. The item retains its shape and possibly its original function depending on how it is altered (GM's 
discretion). The character can only affect one item at a time. The objects that are affected must be smaller 
than the character.
Rule Breaker Feat: The character has the ability to alter an object's molecular structure in the Matrix, 
i.e.,changing a gun to butter, concrete to water, water to wine, etc. The items retains its shape and possibly 
function depending on how it is altered (GM Discretion). A single object of any size can be changed in this way.

Matrix Feat “Control Animal(s)” - [CyberZen]
Rule Bender Feat: The character has the ability to lock gazes with an animal and make that particular animal 
follow his commands.
Rule Breaker Feat: The character can control more than one animal at a time. Characters are only able to 
control as many animals as their Matrix feat rating.

Matrix Feat “Control Gravity” - [CyberZen]
Rule Bender Feat: Character can control how gravity works by increasing or decreasing it on one person or 
object. They have to touch the object.
Rule Breaker Feat: Character can control gravity in an area that they can see. They can control how gravity 
works in an area around the character equal to their Matrix feat rating in meters.

Matrix Feat “Control Plant(s)” - [CyberZen]
Rule Bender Feat: Character can touch a plant and make it grow, and grow in certain direction. To imagine this 
feat think of the plant reaching towards the sun, but the character can make that happen rapidly.
Rule Breaker Feat: Character can make multiple plants grow or wither at will. The character must be in close 
proximity of the plants. GM discretion as to whether the character could affect an entire acre or farm of crops.

Matrix Feat “Control Weather” - [CyberZen]
Rule Bender Feat: Make a rain storm on a sunny day. The more abnormal or extreme the weather change the 
more difficult the task roll. Creating clouds in an office building is very difficult.
Rule Breaker Feat: Without changing the entire weather pattern the person can call lightning to strike in an 
spot of their choosing. The character could call a tornado spiral on a calm day with no other winds around at 
the same time.

Matrix Feat “Create Simple Objects” - [CyberZen]
Rule Bender Feat: The character can restore simple objects that have been destroyed. For example the 
character can restore a burnt candle to its original state. They must touch the item.
Rule Breaker Feat: The character has the ability to make small simple objects from nothing. Simple objects 
don't have any moving parts. The character must touch the item being made.

Matrix Feat “Disguise” - [CyberZen]
Rule Bender Feat: A player can disguise herself to agents and other people within the Matrix. RSI's don’t see 
the character as she is, but rather as she would like to be seen.
Rule Breaker Feat: Player can change their height and weight. It is even possible to alter appendages like 
growing a lost appendage. Mimic someone specifically down to the DNA. Indiscernible from the original. 
Characters must stay human.

Matrix Feat “Dodging Bullets” - [CyberZen]
Rule Bender Feat: Character has an uncanny ability to dodge non-ballistic speed objects. Character can easily 
dodge bows and arrows.
Rule Breaker Feat: The character can dodge ballistics and projectiles in the Matrix. When a character uses 
dodge they cannot perform any other actions that turn.

Matrix Feat “Eagle Eyes” - [CyberZen]
Rule Bender Feat: Character can see long distances as though they were closer. It would be possible to read a 
newspaper article that is a block away as though they were holding the newspaper in their own hands. This 
Matrix feat gives the user extreme tunnel vision. While using this ability they have difficulty focusing on things 
closer than their target range.
Rule Breaker Feat: Character's eyes can vary their magnifaction from normal to the power of an electron 
microscope. They always have the tunnel vision when using this feat.

Matrix Feat “Enhanced Smell” - [CyberZen]
Rule Bender Feat: Character smells scents like a blood hound. They can use this abilit to track a person or 
object by its scent.
Rule Breaker Feat: A character can use smell to identify anyone they have smelled before, even if the person is 
trying to disguise themself as someone else. The character is so sensitive to smells they can pick up 
pheromones similar to how ants follow each other.

Matrix Feat “Firestarter” - [CyberZen]
Rule Bender Feat: Character is able to increase or decrease the intensity of fire that is already burning. Cannot 
create flame from nothing.
Rule Breaker Feat: Character can create fire from nothing. It is easier if they have something to set on fire.

Matrix Feat “Flight” - [CyberZen]
Rule Bender Feat: Character glide on air currents without the aid of wings. They could take a running jump and 
use that to start their gliding. Gliders are not propelled so they don’t move fast unless they are diving, and they 
slow down when climbing. The character can also turn off this Matrix Feat allowing them to fall to the ground 
normally.
Rule Breaker Feat: The character can fly like superman.

Matrix Feat “Forcefield” - [CyberZen]
Rule Bender Feat: The character can create a forcefield around their body that can repel objects, gases, or 
forces from touching the character. This field is on the surface of the characters body.
Rule Breaker Feat: Extend this forcefield to others, or around a certain area. They only control one forcefield. If 
they are using the forcefield to protect someone else they are not protected themselves.

Matrix Feat “Grow Claws” - [CyberZen]
Rule Bender Feat: Alter nails and teeth so they have a razor sharp edge. They can also make them hard as 
diamonds.
Rule Breaker Feat: Grow fingernails and toenails longer and stronger like cat claws. Character could even make 
bone poke through skin in  desired areas.

Matrix Feat “Increased Attribute” - [CyberZen]
Rule Bender Feat: Make a task roll. For each success increase that attribute's dice pool by one die for the 
remainder of the scene. This cannot increase the Cyberzen attribute. The amount of points that a character can 
adjust is equal to Matrix Feat rating. But that can be added up from multiple Attributes. For example a rating 3 
Matrix Feat could adjust Strength +2 and Focus + 1. If they want to increase another attribute then they will 
have to give up one of the current adjustments they already have.
Rule Breaker Feat: Increase Cyberzen. No limit to the amount of Attribute points the character can increase.

Matrix Feat “Increased Skill” - [CyberZen]
Rule Bender Feat: Make a task roll. For each success increase that skill's dice pool by one die for the remainder 
of the scene. The amount of points that can be adjusted by this Matrix Feat is equal to its rating. Similar to 
Increased Attribute.
Rule Breaker Feat: No limit to the amount of Skill points that the character can increase.

Matrix Feat “Invisibilty” - [CyberZen]
Rule Bender Feat: The character becomes harder for people to see. The character does not become translucent, 
but they can only be seen if someone were starring directly at them and focusing.
Rule Breaker Feat: A character can become completely translucent, light travels  through them. Clothes and 
other items the character is wearing are unaffected by this feat.

Matrix Feat “Jump” - [CyberZen]
Rule Bender Feat: Soften a deadly fall of twenty stories, or jump across extreme distances as though they were 
much smaller. You could jump across the Grand Canyon with this feat.
Rule Breaker Feat: Jump gets very similar to fly once a character has the gift. They can jump as far as they 
want. The difference from flying is they can’t do the superman thing. The character can jump for miles as long 
as they are moving up and down not side to side.

Matrix Feat “Mimic” - [CyberZen]
Rule Bender Feat: Character can turn body into an element that they have come in contact with. The body can 
move like normal but it has all the other characteristics of the element they copied.
Rule Breaker Feat: By touching an object, person, animal, or bug the character can become a copy of that thing 
down to the smallest detail. The character does not have to stay human. They could mimic a monkey but they 
must touch it.

Matrix Feat “Mind Control” - [CyberZen]
Rule Bender Feat: Character can plant small one word suggestions or ideas into a RSI’s mind. Upon a successful 
roll the bluepill RSI will carry out that suggestion until its completion. The character can leave the Matrix and 
that character will attempt to complete the suggestion. The RSI will only follow suggestions that don’t hurt 
them. The person cannot be controlled to kill themselves or jump in front of an oncoming bus.
Rule Breaker Feat: The character can possess bluepill RSIs. The character has a psychic link with the RSI and can 
tell them to do what they want. They don’t see what the possessed RSI sees but they know what they know. 
The character also has the ability to manipulate memories.

Matrix Feat “Negate Matrix Feats” - [CyberZen]
Rule Bender Feat: Character can temporarily negate the Matrix Feat ability and effects of other RSI’s or 
programs.
Rule Breaker Feat: The character can permanently negate the Matrix Feat ability and effects of other RSI’s or 
programs.

Matrix Feat “Night Vision” - [CyberZen]
Rule Bender Feat: Characters determine how night vision works for them. Either they use Sonar, low light, or 
heat (infra-red).
Rule Breaker Feat: Character doesn’t need to see. They are completely aware of what is around them as 
though it were daylight. The character knows what is being illuminated by their Matrix Feat and they can turn 
the feat off if they want.

Matrix Feat “Pass Through Objects” - [CyberZen]
Rule Bender Feat: Character can pass through thick liquids and objects as though they were made of air. For 
example using this gift in water would allow the character to run and move as though they were on land.
Rule Breaker Feat: The character can walk through walls and pass through solid objects as though they were 
made of air.

Matrix Feat “Prehensile” - [CyberZen]
Rule Bender Feat: Character can use their tongue, feet and ears to grab things as though they were using their 
hands. The character could use their feet to fire a hand gun without any difficulty.
Rule Breaker Feat: Character can grow extra prehensile appendages they can use just like hands. They could 
even grow an extra arm.

Matrix Feat “Psychometry” - [CyberZen]
Rule Bender Feat: A character can learn about the past of an object, place, or person by touching it.
Rule Breaker Feat: A character can learn about the future of an object, place, or person by touching it.

Matrix Feat “Shapeshifting” - [CyberZen]
Rule Bender Feat: A character can turn into an animal of their choice if they see it while they are shifting.
Rule Breaker Feat: Character can shapeshift into any animal it has ever seen before, even without the animal 
present while the character is shifting.

Matrix Feat “Sonic Blast” - [CyberZen]
Rule Bender Feat: Create a sonic blast that can shatter brittle materials like glass. It can also damage human 
eardrums or be used to stun an opponent.
Rule Breaker Feat: Character can use their sonic blast to knock people over and hit things with force. A 
character could use the sonic blast to lift them up in the air or propel them along in the air.

Matrix Feat “Spatial Manipulation (Spatiokinesis)” - [CyberZen]
Rule Bender Feat: Character can design an area in the matrix that allows them to control reality. This area 
does not change until it is destroyed or reformatted.
Rule Breaker Feat: Character can manipulate the spatial reality of their immediate area, wherever that is. 
Users can warp, bend, flip, crush, control and otherwise manipulate all physical aspects space within area of 
ones choosing. It allows only the ability to manipulate an area, not to defy its laws, so gravity, friction, and 
many other rules will still usually apply. However, it is possible for users of this power to give the illusion that 
they are manipulating gravity by Floortilting or by manipulating spatial pressure, such as decreasing the spatial 
size of a basketball without altering its structure. Users cannot affect people or objects, but they could fold 
space onto itself making the same object take up two different places. Rule Benders are limited to a specific 
location, Rule Breakers are restricted only by their imagination. 

Matrix Feat “Telekinesis” - [CyberZen]
Rule Bender Feat: Character has the ability to lift objects up to their weight if they focus on it. They must see 
the object.
Rule Breaker Feat: Character has the ability to lift objects that weigh more than them with their minds, but 
they must be able to see it.

Matrix Feat “Telepathy” - [CyberZen]
Rule Bender Feat: Character can read surface thoughts of other RSI’s. If the person actively resist having their 
mind read it makes the roll more difficult for the players. People can notice when someone is reading their 
thoughts. It feels like someone is holding your head. It is not painful but noticeable. This is limited to one RSI at 
a time. (difference between Telepathy and Mind Control  is Mind Control allows the RSI to implant thoughts. 
Telepathy only allows a player to read thoughts)
Rule Breaker Feat: Characters can read any thoughts that the RSIs have. Even the person tries to hide a 
thought or memory they will be able unearth it with a little time and focus. This is limited to as many RSIs as 
their Matrix Feat.

Matrix Feat “Teleportation” - [CyberZen]
Rule Bender Feat: A character can teleport very limited distances. Basically if they can see it they can teleport 
there.
Rule Breaker Feat: Can teleport to any destination in the Matrix. Period.

Matrix Feat “Time Slow” - [CyberZen]
Rule Bender Feat: For limited periods the character can slow down one object or person in the area. Usually 
when the character is in combat or in danger they pick one object or person to slow down. The object is slowed 
down for everyone not just to the RSI with the Matrix Feat.
Rule Breaker Feat: The character can slow down the actions of everyone else around them, making the player 
appear to move faster than everyone else. This is limited to an amount of objects not to exceed the Matrix Feat 
rating.

Matrix Feat “True Sight” - [CyberZen]
Rule Bender Feat: The character can see random snippets of code. It is up to the GM as to what the character 
sees when they use this ability. It should be small bits of information.
Rule Breaker Feat: The character can see all of the simulacrum as Matrix code from within the Matrix.

Matrix Feat “Truth Sayer” - [CyberZen]
Rule Bender Feat: The character can tell when someone is lying about anything, or when that person thinks 
they are lying about something.
Rule Breaker Feat: The character can force a RSI to only tell the truth as far as they know. They don’t feel 
compelled to talk, but anything they say is the truth and they don’t know why.

Matrix Feat “Wall Crawling” - [CyberZen]
Rule Bender Feat: The character can cling to walls with hands and/or feet like a spider or climbing insect. If the 
surface is smooth or wet then crawling is more difficult. Much like fi the person was walking on ice. It is difficult 
to be completely upside down, the character must concentrate to be upside down.
Rule Breaker Feat: The character can cling to ceilings and walls made of any material with any type of surface, 
slippery or not.

Matrix Feat “X-Ray Vision” - [CyberZen]
Rule Bender Feat: Not literally using X-Rays to see through objects. Character can see through thin walls and 
clothes as though they weren’t there.
Rule Breaker Feat: Character can see through lead and thick concrete as though it were not there.

Matrix Feat “Heal” - [CyberZen]
Rule Bender Feat: Character can roll Endurance to reduce damage up to their Cyberzen rating, in one day.
Rule Breaker Feat: Character can lay hands on a character and allow them to roll their Endurance score to 
reduce damage even if they have already rolled once this 24 hour period.
      
   Downloaded Skills 
      Operators can convert all skills, except Matrix Feats, into programming code.  Everything from Martial 
Arts to Perception can be quantified and converted into simple ones and zeros. The drawback is the 
programmed skills are only good in the Matrix, where they are uploaded and downloaded to the RSIs as 
needed. A character with a 3-Skilled in Parkor can only use his downloaded skill for Taks rolls while in the 
Matrix. Once the RSI has unplugged from the Matrix those skills stays stored in his brain but are inaccessible 
while he is in the Real World.
      Downloaded skills are limited by the RSI’s Cyberzen rating. Downloaded skills are either temporary or 
permanent, and this should be tracked on the character’s sheet (as listed in [The Matrix RPG].[Game 
Concepts].Matrix Ego). Once unplugged from the Matrix temporary skills are completely erased from the RSI’s 
brain.

   Operator Skills
      Skills used by an Operator to get things done. They are an important part of the crew. Their skill set is 
very specific.
      
      Programming [Focus]- Being able to read the Matrix code. Use Programming to create simulacra 
equipment for the Matrix, etc. When a party or person is in the loading area before they broadcast, they have 
all the equipment that they can take. 
      Hacks that help RSIs get things done in the Matrix. RSIs need an Operator, who is like a copilot, and 
their copilot needs to know some Hacks to help them get around in the system. Hacks help the Operator 
watch a character’s back. Programming Hacks help an Operator know enough programming to see the 
construct for what it is. Operators have a better view of what is happening inside the Matrix than the players 
do.
      The moment before an Operator can jack people into the Matrix, he must make a task roll to see how 
many hardlines he can secure for his team to go into the Matrix. If the Operator makes the task threshold they 
get one secure hardline. For every success rolled above the Task Threshold they secure an additional hardline 
for the group. These hardlines are secure connections that the operator uses to broadcast RSIs in and out of 
the Matrix. An Operator can check if her hardlines have been cut. An Operator has a limited number of spaces 
for that particular broadcast. He can have all his hardlines secure or, if they have been cut or damaged for 
some reason, he can secure another until his maximum amount of secure hardlines have been filled. 
[Example: An Operator makes a task roll to see how many hardlines he can secure for the connection, let’s say 
it is 5. These are 5 secure locations that he can use to bring RSI in and out of the Matrix. If a hardline is cut, he 
can secure another so that he is back to the 5 hardlines he is allowed to maintain.] It is suicide to use a non-
secure hardline; an unsecured hardline could have Agents at the other end of the line.
      Operators also need to be aware of their hardline’s bandwidth. It is more difficult for an Operator to 
secure hardlines with large bandwidths. The more network traffic the higher the bandwidth. High bandwidth 
hardlines increase the Operator’s difficulty level for securing that hardline. So if a crew is trying to broadcast a 
Navy ship it would be next to impossible because the bandwidth for that would be ridiculous. It would be 
better to build a Navy Ship in the Matrix and use that one.
      The Operator makes the task roll to assist the RSIs in the Matrix. The Operator can add dice to the RSI’s 
dice pool. This helps represent the advance knowledge that the Operator is sharing with the players. The 
Operator also helps with lots of roleplay knowledge. The Operator can see what the characters can’t. For 
example an Operator can see through walls. For every success on the Operator’s task roll, the RSI gets 
additional dice added to their dice pool. This affect lasts as long as the Operator’s information is still helpful. 
That is left up to the GM’s discretion.
      
      Matrix Power Plant Hardware [Focus]- Understanding the actual hardware and tech that makes up 
any construct based technology. 
      ?
  Equipment 
Real World Equipment and hardware are listed in this section. This is not a complete list, but I have outlined 
enough items to get most people started. Equipment is gear most people can carry or travel with. Hardware 
includes cyberware and larger pieces of equipment that are not normally carried by one person. Simulacra 
equipment includes items made to work in the Matrix. They are constructed in the Matrix and only work in the 
Matrix.
      
   Real World Equipment List
Equipment is gear that characters can acquire outside the Matrix. All gear outside the Matrix has value based 
on how uncommon, or how difficult it is to find. Humans will trade for food, clothing, shelter, transport, 
weapons, services, or entertainment. Currency doesn’t work in this post apocalyptic world.
      
      Desert Suits- Woven suits that are worn in the ice desert on the surface world. The suits are built with 
environmental controls that keep the body warm. The entire suit is powered on body movement with no 
electronic parts in it at all. The suit recycles bodyheat, saving it and distributing that heat to where it is 
needed. The suit filters the air for breathing, and it can completely recycle breathable air for up to twelve 
hours at a time. The suits are completely submersible in water, but they are less efficient and not at all 
buoyant. These suits were developed by the first Nomads who went out into the desert. Different tribes of 
Nomads have different (sometimes extremely different) styles of suits, but essentially, they all work the same. 
The suits are lightweight and easy to move around in. 
      
      Battle Suits (APU) - Mechanized suits worn by any Zion soldier fighting a sentinel. The first APUs were 
developed from an actual sentinel frame. APUs can use the Machines’ parts in their construction. APUs are 
essential to combat the Machines out of the Matrix. The suits have augmented strength, and they are also 
extremely resistant to damage, much like the sentinels they were developed from. But unfortunately for the 
human race, there are not many of these suits. The raw materials have to be taken from parts of sentinels and 
frames, and of course, the Machines are not about to hand over their factories and frames to the humans. 
APUs are powered by fusion power cells.
      
      Thermal Wear – Non-standard thermal clothing best used under the Earth's surface. Light Thermal 
Wear isn’t sufficient for being above ground at night. If a person plans to spend any time on the surface they 
better have a heavier Thermal Wear. Thermal wear is rated as light, medium, or heavy duty.
      
      Dig Dug- Most nomads carry this utilitarian piece of equipment. The dig dug looks like a metal trash lid 
with claws folded underneath. When placed on the ground with the claw side down, it will dig to a specific 
depth, making a three- to five-foot wide tunnel. Usually, Nomads will put their tents into these burrowed 
holes to sleep hidden and warm.
      
      Canteen- A canteen not only holds water, but can test for the purity of the water and sterilize the 
water if need be. Canteens can also melt small amounts of ice so that a traveler can make water to drink.
      
      Desert Tents- These are a nomadic invention. There are two types of desert tents. The smaller tents 
are made to fit into holes that are burrowed by a dig dug. The large versions are set up on the surface and 
allowed to be buried by blowing snow and ice. These can act as more permanent structures that people can 
live in, and there is natural camouflage from the snow, turning the tent into what would look like a mound of 
snow. These tents come in different sizes, i.e. one man, two man, etc.
      
      Nomad Stick- These are handy tools in a scepter-sized case. They have lights, fire starters, cutters for 
metal, compass, etc. Nomad Sticks can include any number of gadgets, weapons, whatever. These instruments 
were developed by the original Nomad communities—there was a need to make a device that would be both 
functional and easy to carry. Not all Nomads have these sticks, but the desert Nomads prefer them.
      
      Climbing Gear- Shoes, harnesses, ropes, belay devices, and various other climbing odds and ends. 
Climbing gear is specialized for the terrain it is used in. For example, ice climbers might use crampons.
      
      Land Mine-  Explosive device concealed under or on the ground.
      
      Plastic Explosive- Hand-moldable explosive material best used for demolitions. Plastic explosives high-
velocity blast is good for demolishing obstacles.
      
      Trinitrotoluene (TNT)- Easy to manufacture explosives, made from materials in the Real World. Fuses 
and ignition devices for TNT vary.
      
      Ration Packs- Rations consist of “amino-mush”— a person must have at least an ounce a day of this 
synthetic food to survive.
      
      Infrared (IR) Goggles- Used by humans to see heat signatures easily on the cold surface.
      
      Dark Particle Goggles- Used in complete darkness. The goggles make everything appear as though it 
were a photographic negative. Shadows are bright. Light and colors are dark. No colors can be seen with the 
goggles, it’s all monochrome.
      
      First Aid Gear- Antiseptics, bandages, and medicine.
      
      Punksmith tools- A punksmith is the post apocalyptic mechanic. They need lots of tools to maintain 
and create new machines. Punksmith tools are too numerous to mention. The GM assumes a punksmith has 
the tools they need for a job unless otherwise mentioned by the GM. These tools come in two sizes. Either 
their tools are portable and affordable, or their tools are large and expensive. When choosing these tools the 
player must decide how much space their tools take. 
      
   Real World Hardware List
      Neural Interface– A cybernetic plug surgically implanted into the user’s head. This plug allows the 
human to enter the Matrix, converting him into a digital signal that is a Residual Self Image (RSI) of the person.
      
      Skill Chips- RSIs download their skills from skill chips. Chips are programmed at different skill levels. 
There is only one rating for the skill contained on the chip. A character cannot have more than one copy of the 
same skill loaded in their neural hardware. A character can have one skill, and only one skill. If they download 
a cooking skill at novice level, to increase the level of that downloaded skill, the original level must be erased. 
The best skill chips out there, generally, are the military grade skill chips. 
      
      Cyber Limbs- Any human limb can be replaced with a cybernetic prosthetic limb.
      
      Skill Chip Processor- One of the main pieces in any Operator’s broadcast equipment. This is what 
allows the chips to be read and downloaded into the RSIs. It can also be used to write new skill chips and copy 
skill chips. To make skill chips, one needs to have at least a 3-Skilled Level of Programming. The skill chip 
processor will encode the chips with the desired skills. New skills take two days per level of skill chip created. 
To raise, lower, or copy a skill takes one day per level, plus another day for the difference between the old and 
new skills. Copying skills takes one day per level of the skill.
      
      Operator’s Broadcast Control Deck- Has a multitude of screens and chairs. The chairs are used for RSIs 
to plug their cybernetic implants into the mainframe. The video screens display Matrix code for the Operator 
to interpret. The Broadcast deck is used to digitize the RSI’s signal and connect her to the Matrix. The 
broadcast deck creates an interactive simulation, called the loading program, where scenarios can be loaded 
to train people for situations they would encounter in the Matrix. In the ship’s Matrix construct, the Operator 
can give RSI Hackers simulacra Matrix equipment like weapons, fake IDs, clothing, and vehicles before they 
enter the Matrix. Examples of scenarios that a ship’s crew would use in the loading program are the Agent 
training program, the jump program, or the sparring dojo. Loading program scenarios are ways for RSI’s to 
practice their skills and feats safely. In a loading program, which acts just like the Matrix, the Operator is the 
administrator of the loading program. The Operator can change anything in the loading program, unlike the 
Matrix where an Operator has read only access. Delivering equipment into the Matrix requires a hardline, as 
discussed in [Matrix RPG].[Path].[Matrix Operator] section.
      
      Wifi Decoy- These are large spheres that can be dropped in the vicinity of the broadcasting hovercraft. 
If an Agent were to trace the carrier signal for an RSI, the trace would lead to one of these decoys first. Wifi 
decoys add to the amount of time it takes a trace program to find the crew’s location and thus give the crew 
more time to run away. This device makes it harder for the crew’s location to be traced accurately, because 
the Machines have to destroy the decoy and restart the trace.
      
  Weapons
Anything can be a weapon if used properly. Here I have attempted to list at least one type of each weapon 
type that is available in or out of the Matrix.
   
   How Weapons work
In the real world there aren’t many manufacturers. Factories don’t exist like they did in the 20th Century. 
People with the skills to make weapons and items aren’t able to mass-produce items because of lack of 
resources, among other reasons. As a result, many weapons and ammo are custom built.

      Weapons in the Matrix RPG have characteristics that are important: skill type (type), rate of fire (rate), 
ammunition (ammo), effective firing range (range), and damage. 
      
      Skill type (or simply “type”)- determines the skill a character needs to have in order to use that 
weapon. Common skills used for combat and weapons are things like gun fighting, sci fi weapons, knife 
fighting, martial arts, sword fighting, archery, throwing weapons, or other GM approved skills. 
      
      Rate of fire (or simply “rate”)- If weapons have multiple rates of fire, the user can switch to whichever 
rate of fire  he wishes to use that combat turn. Here are the different rates a weapon could have: fully 
automatic fire, semi automatic fire, sustained fire, and single shot. Rate of fire is purely a roleplay 
characteristic. Rate of fire should not affect how much damage the weapon does in a combat turn. Rate of fire 
can change the details a character could use in their description phase of combat. Fully automatic weapons 
will continue to fire as long as the trigger is held down. Semi automatic weapons fire one to three shots at a 
time, but they can continue to fire every time the trigger is pulled. Single shot weapons only have one shot 
before they need to be reloaded. Sustained fire means the weapon only fires while the trigger is depressed 
and continues to fire until the trigger is released.  
      
      Ammunition (or simply “ammo”)- Ammo comes in different forms like belt fed, box, magazine, normal 
(which is a standard, no frills, non explosive round), explosive rounds, flechette (which spray small metal shot 
for more damage to the target), non-lethal (sandbags), fuel cells, or armor piercing. Ammunition is another 
characteristic that is purely for roleplay, and can be added to a description as an additional detail. Ammo 
should only affect the combat during an automatic failure or impressive success. At that point, for example, 
the GM could say the ammo helped increase the damage or, for automatic failure, the ammo is jammed and 
the weapon won’t fire. 
      
      Effective Range (or simply “range”)- Range can affect the accuracy and/or damage of a weapon. Most 
weapons have four categories of range (easy, average, hard, and extreme range). Easy range has no modifiers 
to combat. For each range category above easy, the range begins to negatively modify the task threshold. For 
each range category above easy, subtract 1 die from the player’s dice pool. 
      
      Weapon Damage is listed in wound levels for weapons ([The Matrix RPG].[Game Concepts].Health). 
This is the average combat damage for a weapon of that type.

   Weapon Ranges
Handgun - 	Easy (0-15 ft), Average (16-45 ft), Hard (46-90 ft), extreme (91-180 ft)
SMG - 		Easy (0-30 ft), Average (31-120 ft), Hard (120-240 ft), extreme (241-450 ft)
Assault Rifle -	Easy (0-150 ft), Average (151-450 ft), Hard (451-1,050 ft), extreme (1,051-1,650 ft)
Shotgun -	Easy (0-30 ft), Average (31-75 ft), Hard (76-120 ft), extreme (121-180 ft)
Machine Gun - Easy (0-240 ft), Average (241-600 ft), Hard (601-1,200 ft), extreme (1,201-2,400 ft)
Rifle - 		Easy (0-300 ft), Average (301-750 ft), Hard (751-1,500 ft), extreme (1,501-2,250 ft)
Bow - 		Easy (0-30 ft), Average (31-120 ft), Hard (121-270 ft), extreme (271-450 ft)
Thrown Weapons (Objects) - Easy (Strength in feet), Average (Str x 3 ft), Hard (Str x 5 ft), extreme (Str x 10 ft)
      
   Real World Weapon List
   
Gun scopes
[Type (Accessory)]
A gun scope is a lense that is attached to the barrel of the gun. Scopes are designed for a specific weapon. 
Fizbang scopes don't fit on a Popper handgun. This attachement reduces the range of the shot. Scopes reduce 
the effective range up to their rating. For example, a gun scope (-1 range), or gun scope (-2 range).

Bow
[Type (Archery), Rate (Agility/2), Ammo (Quiver), Damage (2)]
Archer’s bow and arrow. Arrows made of wood are uncommon. Most arrows are metal and tipped with a 
special arrowhead. Usually archers use explosive arrows, but the choices vary.

Crossbow
[Type (Archery), Rate (Agility/2), Ammo (Quiver), Damage (2)]
A smaller bow mounted on a trigger stock that shoots bolts. Most crossbows have a mechanism that draws 
the bow automatically for the shooter.

Chain Knife
[Type (Knife), Rate (Full Round), Ammo (-), Damage (1)]
The blade is made up of tiny blades that move on a chain the length of the blade. Cuts through solid objects 
easier than a normal survival knife would. Chain technology is used on anything with a bladed surface to set a 
path for the chain of blades.

Survival Knife
[Type (Knife), Rate (Full Round), Ammo (-), Damage (1)]
A knife with compass and very light survival equipment, matches, nylon chord, etc.

Chain Axe
[Type (Polearm), Rate (Full Round), Ammo (-), Damage (2)]
The chain axe does an additional damage level with each consecutive hit on their target. If the attacker fails an 
attack, the axe's damage starts over.

Acid Gun
[Type (Sci Fi), Rate (Single Shot), Ammo (Magazine 15), Damage (3)]
A gun fabricated of polymers that shoots an acid up to twenty feet. The acid will eat any metal that it comes in 
contact with. Imagine a fast acting corrosive that will eat through metal in seconds. It only affects metal.

EMP Cannon
[Type (Sci Fi), Rate (Single Shot), Ammo (Fuel Cells 10), Damage (5)]
A cannon connected to a battery. The EMP Cannon carries five charges. It's heavy and takes ten hours to 
charge from empty. It fires an EMP charge in a direction like a shot gun. Its effective range varies, spreading in 
width one meter every three meters of distance. Any Machines in the line of fire will suffer damage.

Laser Rifles
[Type (Sci Fi), Rate (Single Shot), Ammo (Fuel Cells 10), Damage (2)]
Rifles that shoot laser beams and are able to put holes in people and objects. These lasers run on small fuel 
cells that need an hour to fully recharge. The rifle has a 100 shots capacity, with a gauge that shows the 
shooter how many shots are left in the rifle. Laser rifles make a noticeable noise when they are fired. The laser 
sounds like someone pounding on sheet metal with a metal mallet.

Net Gun
[Type (Sci Fi), Rate (Single Shot), Ammo (Clip 5), Damage (-)]
Steel mesh nets used to ensnare people, propelled from a gun. It can load 13 nets at a time. The nets are in 
small 1-inch thick shells that are loaded into a shotgun style weapon.

Plasma Cannon
[Type (Sci Fi), Rate (Sustained), Ammo (Magazine 20), Damage (4)]
A vehicle sized version of the Plasma Gun.

Plasma gun
[Type (Sci Fi), Rate (Sustained), Ammo (Magazine 10), Damage (4)]
A handheld personal firearm. Electricity is projected from this weapon. It has a sustained fire once the trigger 
is pulled and it connects to the target. Don't let go of the trigger until the target is smoking. The stream of 
electricity will keep in contact with the object until something crosses the stream of electricity or the trigger is 
released. This electricity shoots out at the target like a lightning bolt from the sky. The plasma gun can 
overload the circuits of sentinels, but it takes at least 1 round of combat before the frames take damage.

Chain Sword
[Type (Sword), Rate (Full Round), Ammo (-), Damage (2)]
The chain sword will do an additional damage level with each consecutive hit on the target. If the attacker fails 
an attack, the sword's damage starts over.

Cutter Sword
[Type (Sword), Rate (Full Round), Ammo (-), Damage (3)]
Swords that are coated with special polymer, making the swords a hundred times  sharper. Someone wielding 
one of these can cleave through a sentinel's frame with the right type of swing. The Cutter Sword is fueled by 
the holder's bodyheat and the Machine's fusion technology.

EMP Grenades
[Type (Throwing), Rate (Agility/2), Ammo (-), Damage (5)]
Hand grenades that release an EMP burst in a 9-meter radius. EMP only damages electronics and Machines.

Throwing Knives
[Type (Throwing), Rate (Agility/2), Ammo (-), Damage (1)]
Small, perfectly balanced knives used for throwing.

Handgun "Fizbang"
[Type (Gun), Rate (Single Shot), Ammo (-), Damage (1)]
A portable, single shot handgun. Usually carried in someone's boot to surprise a would-be attacker.

Handgun "Gorilla Gun"
[Type (Gun), Rate (Semi Auto), Ammo (Clip 10), Damage (2)]
A Gorilla Gun is a semi automatic handgun. The Gorilla Gun usually holds 10-15 bullets in a clip.

Handgun "Popper"
[Type (Gun), Rate (Semi Auto/Full Auto), Ammo (Clip 30), Damage (3)]
A  fully automatic handgun. As long as the trigger is being pulled, the gun will continue to fire bullets until the 
ammo is depleted.

Handgun "Mini Grinder"
[Type (Gun), Rate (Full Auto), Ammo (Revolver 6), Damage (4)]
This handgun has a rotating barrel and fires all of its bullets at once and continuously. At a minimum, Mini 
Grinder handguns fire three bullets at once. Some of these handguns can fire up to ten shots at once. This is a 
bulky handgun design.

Rifle "Copperfield"
[Type (Gun), Rate (Single Shot), Ammo (Magazine 5), Damage (3)]
A single shot, long range rifle. Punksmiths pride themselves on making excellent Copperfields that shoot 
straight as a line from a thousand feet away.

Rifle "Dragon Shroud II"
[Type (Gun), Rate (Semi Auto), Ammo (Clip 15), Damage (4)]
A semi automatic Rifle that can hold up to ten bullets in a clip/magazine.

Shotgun "Peabody"
[Type (Gun), Rate (Single Shot), Ammo (Magazine 10), Damage (3)]
A single shot shotgun. It takes one shot then it needs to be reloaded. Typically these are break action 
shotguns.

Shotgun "Xtrema"
[Type (Gun), Rate (Semi Auto), Ammo (Magazine 15), Damage (3)]
A semi automatic shotgun. It makes a lot of noise, but the take-down power is worth it when travelling alone.

Shotgun "Jackhammer"
[Type (Gun), Rate (Full Auto), Ammo (Magazine 20), Damage (3)]
A fully automatic shotgun. A Jackhammer has a drum fed magazine that lets it hold up to twenty bullets.

Submachine gun "Kommando"
[Type (Gun), Rate (Semi Auto), Ammo (Clip 30), Damage (2)]
Kommando SMG travels well and it's easy to hide under heavy clothes. Even though there are better guns out 
there, the Kommando has proven itself as the SMG of choice for travellers.

Submachine gun "Uzi"
[Type (Gun), Rate (Full Auto), Ammo (Clip 25), Damage (3)]
An SMG that can fire on full automatic. The range is shorter than other fully automatic weapons, but in a tight 
space range, this doesn't matter. Lonely travellers can find themselves in a lot of tight spaces.

Machine guns "Skoda"
[Type (Gun), Rate (Full Auto), Ammo (Belt 50), Damage (4)]
A large machine gun that needs a tripod or harness to fire it. The weapons is long and has lots of recoil.

Machine guns "Mauser Mini gun"
[Type (Gun), Rate (Full Auto), Ammo (Belt 100), Damage (5)]
A machine gun with a rotating barrel. Unlike the Mini Grinder, this weapon fires one bullet at a time, instead 
of firing all the bullets in the barrel simultaneously.

Assault rifles "AR-G3"
[Type (Gun), Rate (Semi Auto/Full Auto), Ammo (Magazine 40), Damage (2)]
AR-G3 assault rifles are a carbine style. The shorter barrel and adjustable rate of fire make this a universal 
weapon for soldiers. The single shot ability allows this weapon to be aimed like a hunting rifle, but in a pinch, 
the gun can rain bullets continuously. This rifle can hold twenty rounds in a single clip.

Assault rifles "Chow Chat"
[Type (Gun), Rate (Semi Auto), Ammo (Magazine 35), Damage (3)]
Chow Chat assault rifles are in most Zion hovercraft as the assault weapon of choice.

Assault rifles "HK"
[Type (Gun), Rate (Full Auto), Ammo (Magazine 30), Damage (4)]
HK is the king of assualt rifles. Anyone using this weapon is someone ready for a fight. This rifle puts a hole in 
most anything it comes across. This is an easy weapon to modify with accessories like a scope, custom grips, 
adjustable stock, etc.

      
  Vehicles
There are additional rules for vehicles, listed here. There are many places for creative characters to add things 
that are missing from this sourcebook. Vehicle chases are success rolls between the vehicles in the chase. The 
character with the most successes controls the position and outcome of the chase that combat round. Vehicle 
chases happen in combat rounds to better control the action.
      
   Vehicle Attributes
Hovercrafts are not the only vehicles in the Matrix RPG, but hovercraft technology is the standard for Real 
World human vehicle design. A.I. frames, like Sentinels, have many of the same characteristics as vehicles. 
Sentinels have all the vehicle attributes, but they don’t have all the vehicle characteristics. Vehicle Attributes 
are all integral to a vehicle’s functions. 
      
      Speed- This is how fast the ship can travel when pushed to its limits. The vehicle speed rating adds its 
dice to the player’s dice pool when rolling to pilot the vehicle.
      Agility- This is how difficult it is to operate the craft at speed and over difficult terrain. Can this piece of 
$#!t squeeze through an abandoned building without losing its engine? Agility rating reduces the task 
threshold for piloting test.
      Fuel (remaining/maximum)- Fuel is a rating comprised of two numbers. The first number is the amount 
of fuel cells remaining for the ship to use as power. The second number is the maximum number of fuel cells 
the ship is designed to hold. With a good Punksmith on your crew, more fuel cells can be added to the vehicle. 
One day is the average life for a fuel cell, and they can be charged. A single fuel cell takes one hour to fully 
charge. All vehicles are listed with their maximum fuel cell rating.

   Vehicle Characteristics
Vehicle Characteristics are purely roleplay details. Characteristics are not attributes for the vehicle, these are 
details that are important for some vehicles and irrelevant for others. Because these are only roleplay 
details, they do not have a rating per se, but they do affect actions in the game. For example, being 
able to detect things with your vehicle’s sensors is important, but that ability doesn’t have a rating. 
Without a rating, characters should roleplay these situations and make it more interesting. For 
example, when the hovercraft detects Sentinels using the Magnetic Anomaly, it can do so from a safe, 
long range. In comparison, detection using the vehicle’s proximity sensors will detect the sentinels 
about the same time that the sentinels will detect the vehicle. No ratings are used for vehicle 
characteristics, just roleplay opportunities.
Sensors–This is the vehicle’s ability to detect other vehicles electronically. This is roleplay because there are 
too many variables to compare. 
Sensor Countermeasures- Ability to counter vehicle’s standard sensors. Countermeasures are another 
roleplay item that ties closely with Sensors. Contermeasures work against specific types of attacks or 
camouflage. (To say your vehicle has ALL the countermeasures available is silly. Come up with a 
plausible countermeasure idea then get it approved by your GM. If you have a cool idea to camouflage 
your ship, then roleplay it.)
Security Systems- Roleplay this and think of what kind of security the vehicle would have, if any. Are the 
vehicle’s access points locked with a retina scan or a passcode entered into a keypad? Can the pilot talk 
to the ship because she has made the controls voice-activated?
Hull Integrity- This is the strength of the craft's body, armor and all. This is important for things like ramming 
another vehicle. 
Space- Cargo and infrastructure are purely for roleplay. GMs should play this up and give it some life. 
Examples are bucket seat, wall bench seat, two weapons, or one bigger weapon, etc. This is where 
characters will be doing a lot of their living and socializing. Vehicles are like the mobile homes of the 
post-apocalyptic era. 
Enhancements- What types of weapons and equipment does the vehicle have on it? Think about weapons, 
equipment, and communication (comm) systems. Some Punksmith ships have Collector Arrays for 
collecting raw materials like recyclers, claws, magnets, sifters, metal crushers, metal shredders, 
untanglers, and wire spoolers, etc. Use this to describe the vehicle in detail. Even Wireless broadcast 
equipment would be noted here. Broadcast equipment can be internally fitted, or it can be mounted 
externally.
Vehicle Skill Type- Ground craft (Wheeled or Tracked vehicles), Aircraft (hovercraft, winged planes), Remote 
craft (drones), A.I. Frame (Sentinels)

   Sensors
Heat (IR signature) - This would be a great thing to use on the surface.
Chemical Detector - Sentinels can test the air quality of an area to see if human life is sustainable there.
Magnetic Anomaly Detector - Great for finding sentinels and frames. Shows their location even through the 
ground or underwater. This will only work if there isn’t magnetic or radioactive material in the rock to 
interfere with the signal.
Metal Detector- Gives positive signal when the sensor detects metal of a certain type.
Air Flow Sensor- Underground air moves like water. If there is something moving underground, it should 
cause the air to move and that air-flow is detectable.
Decibel (sound level) Sensor- Detects sound in the atmosphere.
Seismic Sensor- Detects motion on the ground. For example, if someone is walking on the ground, that would 
be detected by a seismic sensor.
Motion Sensor- Detects motion of objects in front of the sensor. Light is not necessary, some of these sensors 
can work in complete darkness.
Proximity Sensor- Detects a nearby object and measures the object’s proximity without touching it.
Ultrasonic Sensor- Provides a picture of the objects in front of the sensor by using ultrasonic sound. The sound 
waves bounce back to the sensor, which then uses the sound waves like a bat would to create an 
image of those objects.
Wireless Sensors- Used to detect wireless signals and networks.
Video Sensor- Displays what a character would see with human eyes.

   Real World Vehicle List
Hovercrafts are the most common form of transportation, because of the terrain one encounters when 
travelling in the real world. Hovercrafts use anti-gravity engines, which allow them to be suspended in the air. 
Propulsion is provided by those same anti-gravity engines.

Speeder Hovercraft
[Speed (4), Agility (2), Fuel (3), Skill - Aircraft]
A single-person hovercraft designed for speed and agility. Speeders usually look like the motorcycles and 
choppers of the 20th century, but without any wheels. These hovercraft are sometimes modified to hold a 
passenger, but don’t count on it.

Zion Military Hovercraft
[Speed (3), Agility (2), Fuel (14), Skill - Aircraft]
Typically carries up to 15 people. It has a mess hall, Operator's broadcast station, sleep chambers, and 
infirmary for two (comfortably).

Nomad Hovercraft
[Speed (3), Agility (3), Fuel (7), Skill - Aircraft]
Hovercrafts most commonly used by Nomads to transport their immediate family of clansmen. Carries six 
passengers comfortably. This hovercraft has sleeping quarters, bathroom, and mess hall. Not very roomy, but 
it has all the amenities that travelers need.

Torpedo Hovercraft
[Speed (5), Agility (1), Fuel (1), Skill - Aircraft]
Small, slim, and fast. This is a rocket-shaped ship that seats only one person. Designed only for speed, these 
hovercrafts are dangerous to pilot.

Squidi
[Speed (3), Agility (4), Fuel (2), Skill - Frame (Sentinel)]
Squidies use anti gravity technology to move around. They also have decibel and seismic sensors to help them 
better detect humans.



  Simulacra Equipment
      Compilation of basic simulacra, Matrix-programmed objects, equipment used in the Matrix.
      
   Simulacra Equipment
All simulacra equipment is from the 90’s. All technology is set to circa 1999.

Cash & Credit Cards
[Damage (), Type (), Rate (), Ammo (), Range (), Vehicle Type (), Speed (), Agility (), Fuel ()]
Money, proper currency for the Matrix setting the RSI Hacker is entering.

Clothes
[Damage (), Type (), Rate (), Ammo (), Range (), Vehicle Type (), Speed (), Agility (), Fuel ()]
All black. Leather where possible. Some suits have ties that match the crew member’s rank.

Phone
[Damage (), Type (), Rate (), Ammo (), Range (), Vehicle Type (), Speed (), Agility (), Fuel ()]
With or without blue tooth ear bud.

Fake IDs
[Damage (), Type (), Rate (), Ammo (), Range (), Vehicle Type (), Speed (), Agility (), Fuel ()]
They look real. Depending on the preparation and work, they might stand up to a check by the police or 
authorities.

Sunglasses
[Damage (), Type (), Rate (), Ammo (), Range (), Vehicle Type (), Speed (), Agility (), Fuel ()]
An RSI must-have. All Zion RSI Hackers where sunglasses as part of their Matrix uniforms.

Extraction Aparatus
[Damage (), Type (), Rate (), Ammo (), Range (), Vehicle Type (), Speed (), Agility (), Fuel ()]
When a bluepill is extracted from the Matrix the RSIs need special equipment. The standard aparatus contains 
Red & Blue pills, signal tracers and analysis machine.

Bug Removal Tool
[Damage (), Type (), Rate (), Ammo (), Range (), Vehicle Type (), Speed (), Agility (), Fuel ()]
Scans a RSI body and removes any bugs that could trace the bluepill.

Beacon
[Damage (), Type (), Rate (), Ammo (), Range (), Vehicle Type (), Speed (), Agility (), Fuel ()]
Used to send messages to Zion ships from the Matrix. Beacons can be found by Agents and other A.I. over 
time so be careful.

   Simulacra Weapons
Desert Eagle .50 cal
[Damage (3), Type (Gun), Rate (Semi Auto), Ammo (magazine (7))]
A large-caliber, semi automatic handgun.

Berreta 92fs 9mm
[Damage (2), Type (Gun), Rate (Semi Auto), Ammo (magazine (10))]
A medium-caliber, semi automatic handgun.

Revolver "Smith & Wesson" .38 Special
[Damage (2), Type (Gun), Rate (Semi Auto), Ammo (revolver (6))]
A medium-caliber, revolver-style semi automatic handgun.

Submachine gun "H&K MP5"
[Damage (3), Type (Gun), Rate (Semi Auto/Full Auto), Ammo (magazine (20))]
A medium-caliber submachine gun. Often, this gun has a flash suppressor, foldable stock, removable gun 
scope, and underbarrel halogen light.

Assault Rifle "M-16"
[Damage (3), Type (Gun), Rate (Semi Auto/Full Auto), Ammo (magazine (20))]
An assault rifle originally designed for jungle warfare. It can be modified to have a laser sight or a night vision 
scope. Some models have a shortened carbine  barrel.

Shotgun "Mossberg"
[Damage (3), Type (Gun), Rate (Semi Auto), Ammo (magazine (5))]
A typical pump action shotgun.

Glock .45 cal
[Damage (3), Type (Gun), Rate (Semi Auto), Ammo (magazine (10))]
A medium-caliber handgun with a polymer frame.

Hand Grenade
[Damage (4), Type (Gun), Rate (Agility/2), Ammo ()]
High explosive that can be thrown like a baseball and goes off after a set amount of time determined before it 
is activated.

Rocket Propelled Grenade
[Damage (4), Type (Gun), Rate (Single Shot), Ammo ()]
A shoulder-mounted anti-tank weapon. It fires an explosive warhead with fins for stabilization. Some RPGs aim 
by a laser guided system.

M72 LAW Rocket
[Damage (5), Type (Gun), Rate (Single Shot), Ammo ()]
The M72 LAW (Light Anti-Armor Weapon) fires an unguided 66-mm round. These are highly portable anti-
armor weapons.

APS Machine Pistol
[Damage (3), Type (Gun), Rate (Semi Auto/Full Auto), Ammo (magazine (20))]
Handguns with extended clips and fully automatic fire.

7 mm Remington Sniper Rifle
[Damage (4), Type (Gun), Rate (Single Shot), Ammo ()]
A precision rifle that is accurate at longer ranges than a sporting rifle. This rifle commonly has a tripod and gun 
scopes added.

Browning Hunting Rifle
[Damage (3), Type (Gun), Rate (Semi Auto), Ammo (magazine (5))]
A sporting rifle designed for hunting game or sport shooting. These rifles are very accurate and damaging.

Tanto survival knife
[Damage (1), Type (Sword), Rate (Full Round), Ammo ()]
The angular-shaped blade of the Tanto gives it extra strength. So strong it could cut through thin metal.

Throwing Knives
[Damage (1), Type (Throwing), Rate (Agility/2), Ammo ()]
Well balanced blades designed for being thrown at targets.

Ruger Revolver .22 cal
[Damage (1), Type (Gun), Rate (Semi Auto), Ammo (revolver (9))]
.22-caliber weapons are small and easy to hide in your clothes. They don't have much stopping power, but 
they will still damage the target.

Katana
[Damage (2), Type (Sword), Rate (Full Round)]
Japanese swords that were traditionaly worn by samurai warriors. A moderately curved blade of about 23 
inches and a long, two-handed grip.

Rapier
[Damage (2), Type (Sword), Rate (Full Round)]
A slender, sharply pointed sword. Designed for thrusting attacks.
      
   Simulacra Vehicles
Ducati Motorcycle
[Vehicle Type (Ground craft), Speed (4), Agility (4)]
A race motorcycle that seats one person.

Harley Davidson Hog
[Vehicle Type (Ground craft), Speed (3), Agility (3)]
A heavyweight motorcycle made for long highway rides. The muffler systems of these motorcycles make them 
sound like someone repeatedly saying "potato".

Farrari Sports Car
[Vehicle Type (Ground craft), Speed (5), Agility (3)]
A 12-cylinder Italian sports car that is street legal.

Subaru Sedan
[Vehicle Type (Ground craft), Speed (3), Agility (3)]
A four-door passenger car that is comfortable to drive for long trips. Not as maneuverable as a smaller vehicle.

Ford Compact Car
[Vehicle Type (Ground craft), Speed (2), Agility (2)]
A mid-sized car that has good gas milage and is highly maneuverable in the city.

Mercedes Luxury Sedan
[Vehicle Type (Ground craft), Speed (3), Agility (3)]
A luxury four-door passenger car that is comfortable to drive for long trips. Not as maneuverable a smaller 
vehicle.

Jeep SUV
[Vehicle Type (Ground craft), Speed (3), Agility (4)]
A sports utility vehicle with 4-wheel-drive and good maneuverability.

Toyota Mini Van
[Vehicle Type (Ground craft), Speed (2), Agility (2)]
Minivans are designed for maximum interior space. A minivan  can seat up to 8 people comfortably.

U-Move Small Truck (20' trailer)
[Vehicle Type (Ground craft), Speed (2), Agility (1)]
A small tractor trailer used for light duty hauling. This can be an open or closed trailer depending on what is 
being hauled.

Mac Truck (30'trailer)
[Vehicle Type (Ground craft), Speed (3), Agility (1)]
An 18-wheeler used for heavy-duty hauling. Lots of power with poor maneuverability.

?
  Glossary of Terms
  
“Simulacra & Simulations” by Neo- Neo created this book for the resistance. Now it is a bible for any RSI. It contains the 
plain truth of the MATRIX. It also explains the Machines in a way that the average prisoner can understand. The 
Machines are the government and there are things in this reality that they do not want you to know. The book is 
downloaded into the MATRIX. The Machines destroy any copies they find and anyone with a copy of this handbook best 
beware for her life.
A.I. (Artificial Intelligence)- This is what computers have evolved into. A.I. are sentient lifeforms. They are aware of their 
surroundings. Physically, they appear as glowing matrices of electricity that can enter into Frames. Program sizes are no 
longer relevant to A.I., they have developed past circuit boards. (A.K.A. the Machines.)
Bluepills- These are RSIs that are not ready to be unplugged from the Matrix--minds that are too old or immersed in the 
Matrix and would die if they were ever unplugged from their generator pod.
Construct- A neural simulation platform. A program that clears the brain of external sense data. This program also 
creates a Residual Self Image (RSI) for the person using it. The only sense data that exist in the construct are that data 
which is inputted there by a program, or created there (usually within parameters set by the construct, ie. you turn the 
light on in a completely dark room and there is a chair, table, kitchen, etc).
Crystal Shard- A Matrix power plant, formerly known as #BJ04CH, that was successfully attacked by humans and 
converted into the first human city on the surface.
Data Mites- RSIs who are in the Matrix looking for data for whatever reason. This is the reason for most RSIs to go into 
the Matrix. In order to study and examine information about the Matrix, one needs to be broadcasted into the Matrix. 
There isn’t a way to tap the transmission lines for data. One just needs to jump in and get his hands dirty.
Dial In/Out- Used to describe RSIs travelling in and out of the Matrix.
EMP (Electromagnetic Pulse)- Radiation that disrupts electrical signals and systems.
Flub- Slang word for failing a task roll.
Fungus Sludge- Thick drink, dark color. Made from any fungus. The liquid is high in alcohol content, which makes it a 
popular drink.
Hardlines- Lines that are connected to broadcast stations. Broadcast stations connect remote battery cells to other cells 
in a plant. This is what connects cells in a plant so that when someone’s RSI crosses boundaries of a Matrix cell, she can 
travel through the entire Matrix.
Input/Output Carrier Signals- This is the signal used to track someone’s physical position in a crop so that he can be 
unplugged.
Loading Program- A neural interactive simulation, like the Matrix, used by Operators to load RSI's before they are 
downloaded into the Matrix.
MATRIX (construct)- A neural, interactive simulation. A construct program built by A.I. Programs to simulate reality for 
the humans. It is designed to keep humans asleep, passive, controlled, and imprisoned in their minds.
Online- To be connected to The System, this is done easiest through the Matrix.
Outpost- Most organized communities set up Outpost where they can scan the area for any Machines or unwanted 
guests. Outpost are typically outfitted with some weapons, transportation, communication, and observation equipment.
Piss swill- A drink sold mainly in the Outpost cities. It is refined so that the liquid is clear and yellow. It’s a sweet drink 
that gives a person all the nutrients found in a meal.
Plasma- Highly charged particles, used mainly in weapons.
Plug- Neural hardware that allows for humans to interact with computer constructs.
Redpills- These are RSIs that are candidates for being pulled from the Matrix. They may take the symbolic red pill to start 
the process of being removed from the Matrix.
RSI (“Ressies”)- A digital projection of your body in the Matrix.
Simulacrum- Matrix objects that are made by programming them in the code of the Matrix. Matrix objects can be coded 
by humans or Machines.
The Ice Desert- The climate on the surface of the earth, very harsh to humans, although some do manage to stay there 
and live there. Most of the life on the surface is made up of the Machines. (A.K.A. the Real World.)
The System- There is more to the A.I.'s computer system than the Matrix. The non-Matrix parts of the computer world 
are programmed in a binary machine language. This part of the Machine world is called the System.
Utopia- A hidden human city that few know the location of.
Zion- Underground city of human rebels.
Punk- To modify or repair something.
       
      
?
      Task Threshold Difficulty = Easy (1), Average (2), Hard (3), Extreme (4)
      
      Target Number on a 10 sided die = (6+)
      
      Task Shortcut = Attribute + Skill (Threshold Difficulty)
      
      Task Threshold - 
      Exploding die - a natural 10 rolled on a 10 sided die is an auto successes + another 1d10 to roll
      1s are auto failure (- 1 success)
      
      Character Improvement - Experience Cost
      Raise Attribute = Next level * 2
      Skill cost = 3 points to start
      Raise Skill = Next level * 1
      CyberZen = Next level * 3
      
      Healing Damage
      Light damage = 24 hours to heal
      Moderate damage = Average Difficulty
      Serious damage = Hard Difficulty
      Critical damage = Extreme Difficulty
      Incapacitated = Coma/Unconscious
      
      Skills: 
      0-Interest, 1-Novice, 2-Practiced, 3-Skilled, 4-Master, 5-Teacher
      
      Damage Levels:
       1-Light, 2-Moderate, 3-Serious, 4-Critical, 5-Incapacitated, Dead
      
      Matrix Layout: 
      Generator Pod (people) ? Transmission Lines (roads, Prime Movers) ? Power plant electric grid 
(cities) ? (Switching Stations) ? Hardlines (Phones, Antennas, telecommunication systems)
      
?
Agility
Aircraft Piloting
Ambidextrous
Archery
Balancing Feats
Dancing
Driving
Ground Craft Piloting
Gun Fighting
Knife Fighting
Martial Arts
Polearm fighting
Slight of hand
Blade Fighting
Thai Boxing
Throwing Weapons
Escape Bonds
Sci Fi Weapons
Acrobatics

Common Sense
Acting
Animal Training/Handling
Bartering
Blackmarket
Coercion
Conceal
Diplomacy
Disguises
Escape Bonds
Gambling
Gather Information
Guerrilla Tactics
History of Zion
Interrogate
Nomad Clan Customs
Philosophy
Photography
Religion
Remote Piloting
Snooping
Stalk
Stealth
Surveillance
Thieving
Track
Linguist
Perception
PunkSmithing
Salvage

Endurance
Running
Survival
Ice Desert Survival
Rock climbing

Focus
Aiming
Art
Biology
Blacksmith
Chemistry
City Speak
Demolitions
Electronics
Encryption
First Aid
Forgery
Geology
Gunsmith
Hand signals
Hypnotize
Ice Desert Survival
Law
Leadership
Linguist
Locksmithing
Medical Knowledge
Navigate
Perception
Sci Fi Weapons
System Operations
Vehicle Repair (by piloting type)
Writing

Strength
Acrobatics
Blacksmith
Boxing
Brawling
Fitness
Parkor
PunkSmithing
Rock climbing
Salvage
Swimming

Cyberzen
Matrix Feat “Acute Hearing” 
Matrix Feat “Atmospheric Adaptation” 
Matrix Feat “Blindness” 
Matrix Feat “Change Material” 
Matrix Feat “Control Animal(s)” 
Matrix Feat “Control Gravity” 
Matrix Feat “Control Plant(s)” 
Matrix Feat “Control Weather” 
Matrix Feat “Create Simple Objects” 
Matrix Feat “Disguise” 
Matrix Feat “Dodging Bullets” 
Matrix Feat “Eagle Eyes” 
Matrix Feat “Enhanced Smell” 
Matrix Feat “Firestarter” 
Matrix Feat “Flight” 
Matrix Feat “Forcefield” 
Matrix Feat “Gliding” 
Matrix Feat “Grow Claws” 
Matrix Feat “Increased Attribute” 
Matrix Feat “Increased Skill” 
Matrix Feat “Invisibilty” 
Matrix Feat “Jump” 
Matrix Feat “Mimic” 
Matrix Feat “Mind Control” 
Matrix Feat “Negate Matrix Feats” 
Matrix Feat “Night Vision” 
Matrix Feat “Pass Through Objects” 
Matrix Feat “Prehensile” 
Matrix Feat “Psychometry” 
Matrix Feat “Shapeshifting” 
Matrix Feat “Sonic Blast” 
Matrix Feat “Spatial Manipulation (Spatiokinesis)” 
Matrix Feat “Telekinesis” 
Matrix Feat “Telepathy” 
Matrix Feat “Teleportation” 
Matrix Feat “Time Slow” 
Matrix Feat “True Sight” 
Matrix Feat “Truth Sayer” 
Matrix Feat “Wall Crawling” 
Matrix Feat “X-Ray Vision” 
Matrix Feat “Heal” 

?


  Sample Characters
  
?
Player Name:

Health Monitor
PC Name:

Light
(+1 Threshold)
PC call sign:

Medium
(+2 Threshold)


Serious
(+3 Threshold)
Age:

Critical
(+4 Threshold)
Gender:

Incapacitated
(+5 Threshold)
Life Path:

Dead
Citizenship and Rank:


Description
Attributes
Equipment

Common Sense:


Focus:


Agility:


Strength:


Endurance:





Matrix Ego


CyberZen:


The Gift:  Y / N








Cybernetics










“Real World” Skills:
Downloaded Skills:
“Simulacra” Matrix Equipment:
















































































?
 
This section needs to be rewritten to 1) address how Matrix Feats (bend/break) works.
The Unofficial Matrix RPG© written by Tre’ Grisby		Page 1 of 1
Printed on May 27, 2026
